The Independent Police Investigative Directorate (IPID) has arrested a police officer in KwaZulu-Natal for allegedly raping an 8-year old girl. IPID’s spokesperson, Ndileka Cola says the incident allegedly happened in 2017 and the victim was badly injured. “It is alleged that in April 2017 the mother of the victim noticed that her 8- year-old daughter had a rash between her thighs. She tried to treat it with an ointment.  Two months later the victim started urinating herself as she could not hold her pee, Upon asking her daughter, she first lied about a 4-year-old boy. The mother requested her to tell the truth and the child informed her that the police officer went to their home, found her alone, locked the door and raped her,” says Cola. A 44-year-old sergeant from Impendle Vispol has appeared before the Pietermaritzburg Magistrate’s Court for the alleged rape. The police officer is expected to make a formal bail application on the 24th of June. Gauteng man sentenced for multiple rapes A 38-year-old man convicted of raping middle-aged women around Suurman settlement and Temba in the Gauteng province has been sentenced to three life sentences and an additional 25 years in prison. He was arrested in 2015 after he was positively linked by DNA. Benjamin Bapela refused to come to the dock of the Temba Magistrate’s court, near Hammanskraal, north of Pretoria. Magistrate Desmond Humphreys handed down judgment in his absence. He says Bapela undermined the victims and the court. He was not granted leave to appeal and he was declared unfit to possess a firearm, his sentences will run concurrently. Some of the victims were in court and could not hold back their tears when the magistrate handed down the sentence. “He choked me, there was a brick, he used that brick on my head and then I started screaming, and then I was running until I fell down and then he took another brick, and then beat me on my head again. So that time I was helpless, begging for my life, so he ended up raping me, honestly, I am broken.” “It’s been a long time waiting for this day to come, am just glad it comes, cause all I wanted was him to get a life sentence that’s it, so that my heart can be at peace. At least I can sleep and then less stress.”