The Special Investigating Unit (SIU) has confirmed that a case against the former associates of Health Minister Dr Zweli Mkhize has been opened at the Norwood police station in Johannesburg. The charges of fraud and embezzlement against Tahera Mather and Naadhira Mitha were laid in May by the director of the communications company Digital Vibes, Radha Hariram. Digital Vibes is at the centre of a R150 million irregular contract with the Department of Health to oversee its communications work. It’s alleged the company was paid for work that could have been done internally. Investigative Journalist, Pieter-Louis Myburgh on the alleged irregular contract:  It is alleged that Mather and Mitha transferred large sums of money from the company’s business account without the director’s knowledge. “It’s alleged that an amount of R80 million was embezzled from the Digital Vibes business account. The SIU says it will follow the money flows when it investigates the allegations. Digital Vibes allegedly paid for renovations at a house belonging to Mkhize’s family trust and the Minister’s son Dedani’s car. SIU spokesperson Kaizer Kganyago has confirmed that they are investigating the matter but has, however, said they cannot confirm further as it’s now a criminal matter, but they will watch it closely. SIU spokesperson Kaizer Kganyago on investigations into the irregular Digital Vibes contract:  Mkhize to appear before ANC Integrity Commission The ANC’s Integrity Commission said on Monday that it has received a letter from  Mkhize indicating that he will appear before the commission about the irregular R150 million Digital Vibes tender. Mkhize told reporters last week that the contract was irregular and that disciplinary action will be taken against those responsible. ‘We received the letter at the meeting and we said we will call him. We will write a letter to him to tell him when to come and will arrange the date. We did not decide on the meeting. Contents will come out when we discuss with him. I understand this is a serious matter, but I won’t pre-empt the deliberations with the IC,” ANC Integrity Commission chairperson, George Mashamba said. President Cyril Ramaphosa calls for patience over Digital Vibes investigation: 