Six people have been killed in a minibus taxi crash on the R74 between Kranskop and Greytown in KwaZulu-Natal. The taxi was allegedly overloaded. MEC for Transport, Community Safety and Liaison, Peggy Nkonyeni, has called on motorists to adhere to traffic regulations. Department spokesperson, Kwanele Ncalane says 15 other people sustained serious injuries and are being treated in nearby hospitals. “The police are investigating cases of culpable homicide. However, they are also investigating negligence and reckless driving on the side of the driver; hence it is clear that the occupants on the minibus were beyond the normal and acceptable load since it was carrying 20 people. The MEC has sent her condolence to the affected families and has called in the investigators to speed up the investigation.” Still, in KZN, 17 people have been injured in a crash involving two vehicles on the N3 Durban bound at the Mariannhill Tollplaza in Pinetown. KZN VIP Paramedics spokesperson, Garith Jameson, says the 17 people sustained injuries ranging from minor to moderate. “Paramedics from KZN VIP arrived at the scene just before 7 am Sunday morning to find that two vehicles had collided. One of the vehicles had collided with the actual toll booth. A total of 17 people had sustained injuries ranging from minor to moderate and immediately more ambulances were dispatched. The injured were stabilised on the scene before they were transported to the hospital for the care that they require.” Woman killed in Limpopo crash A woman has died and 21 others injured when a bakkie they were traveling in overturned at Maake near Tzaneen in Limpopo on Sunday. Transport Department spokesperson, Mike Maringa, says the 23-year-old woman died on the scene. “The accident recorded in the Maake area outside in the early hours of this morning where one person was certified dead and 21 escaped with injuries, is a cause for concern to us as a department. We expect motorists to know that by now we are on lockdown and they restrain their movements to avoid the spike of COVID-19 cases and fatal crashes.” – Additional reporting by Katlego Nyoni.