Political Analyst Dr Dale McKinley says Health Minister Dr Zweli Mkhize not appearing before the Health Portfolio Committee just puts more clouds over his head and more people are going to ask questions around his involvement in the Digital Vibes tender. Mkhize has been accused of conflict of interest amid allegations that he benefited from a R150 million tender that his department awarded to the communications company. The analyst says, “Opposition parties are going to make hay of this and generally speaking he is going to come under more pressure.” McKinley says the ANC must encourage Mkhize to resign as a matter of principle. “He should say ‘look, there’s clearly something wrong here. I have a case to answer. I’m going to step out of my role right now.’ People would respect that and I think the ANC must allow that and encourage that to happen. Not just with Mkhize, but with the whole range of their members who are dealing with serious allegations because the only way they are going to clean the name of the party and are going to regain the trust of the population, is if they are seen to act. Not simply when and being charged formally, but when there is clear evidence that there’s been wrongdoing. And I think that’s fundamentally important for the President to consider.” Dr Dale McKinely on Mkhize’s not appearing before the Committee:  The Special Investigating Unit is probing the irregular tender that was for work related to the National Health Insurance scheme and government’s response to the coronavirus pandemic. Mkhize failed to appear before Parliament’s Portfolio Committee on Health, on advice by his lawyers. Dr Zweli Mkhize advised not to appear before Parliament’s Health Portfolio Committee:  Chairperson of the committee, Sibongiseni Dhlomo, says it is fair legally for Mkhize not to appear before the committee. “I had a telephonic discussion with Dr Mkhize last night. I got to hear that he had been given a legal opinion that it’s not advisable just for now for him to join the Portfolio Committee because allegations that actually put his name into the picture. So, then it is fair legally for him not to come in to explain.” Dr Sibongiseni Dhlomo on Health Minister Mkhize not appearing before the Parliament Committee:  Opposition parties ‘discontent’ with Mkhize Opposition parties in the Portfolio Committee on Health have expressed their discontent with Mkhize’s non-appearance. They also disagreed with the ANC’s position that the matter is subjudice after the DA opened a case at Cape Town Police Station against Mkhize and his Director-General Sandile Buthelezi. DA lays criminal charge against Dr Zweli Mkhize:  EEF MPs, Dr Suzan Thembekwayo and Naledi Chirwa say the ANC’s position on this matter is an indication that the committee will not be able to hold the minister to account. “This was a clear indication that we as the committee cannot be able to speak in one voice to bring the national department and the minister to account,” says Thembekwayo. “So we cannot talk about this matter because a case has been opened against the minister, what happens when the NPA bring the matter to the court? Are we going to be held at ransom and wait until it is finished? ” probed Chirwa.