Limpopo Police Commissioner Lieutenant-General Thembi Hadebe has commended the work done by a team of investigating officers after a 52-year-old father was sentenced to four life terms behind bars by the Polokwane High Court for murdering his four children. Lucas Phasha, a former lawyer, was arrested on the same day he brutally killed his children Katlego (9), Joyce (7), Tshepo (5) and Adel (2) at Ga Phasha village in the Sekhukhune district in 2020. Limpopo social development MEC reacts to court ruling Meanwhile, Social Development MEC Nkakareng Rakgoale who was in court says she is happy the sentencing happened during the observance of the Child Protection Week. “We feel much relieved honestly especially because this came at a time when we are commemorating International Child Protection Week, which is sending a message to the public out there that we do have the responsibility to protect the children,” adds Rakgoale. Mother welcomes conviction The mother of the four children has welcomed the conviction and the four life sentences handed down by the court. Sylvia Monyela says it hurts that the father never admitted to killing the children. “I am so happy that they found him guilty, he will never see me again. It hurts that he never admitted that he killed them, but I am happy the court found it that indeed he killed them; so I am so happy.” NPA satisfied with conviction The National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) says it is satisfied with the four life terms handed down by the court. Provincial NPA spokesperson Mashudu Malabi-Dzhangi says the long sentence will serve as a deterrent. “As the NPA, we welcome the conviction and sentence as the prosecution managed to prove beyond a reasonable doubt in this case. We know that Phasha has killed his minor children, so this is a horrific crime. We welcome the sentence and we hope it will send the message to the public that justice has been served to this family.” Limpopo man sentenced to four life terms for killing his four children: 