All eyes will be on government and public sector unions when they resume wage negotiations tomorrow. Unions are supposed to give feedback on their members’ response to the offer of a 1,5% wage increase tabled by government last month. But it seems many unions need more time to consult their members, because of challenges posed by the current COVID-19 restrictions. It’s been described as the most difficult public sector wage negotiations since the dawn of democracy almost thirty years ago. Government refused to increase salaries at all, saying there’s just no money to do so for the next four years. Getting the views of all civil servants on the offer, is proving to be difficult for the unions. “Normally unions call a meeting to consult members about mandate, however, due to COVID-19 restrictions, it makes it difficult for us,” says Cosatu’s chief negotiator for public sector unions, Mugwena Maluleke. Reaching civil servants who are based in rural areas virtually, is a challenge. “Various methods exploited by unions may not be suitable for some areas due to data and connectivity,” added Maluleke. Public sector unions to resume wage negotiations:  Against this background, tomorrow’s meeting will most likely decide to extend the consultation process regarding the offer on the table. “Time is of the essence, however, it’s important that organisations touch base with members to ensure that whatever is going to be presented is a reflection of what the workers are saying. Our approach as labour is those unions that have not completed consultations be given time before we present a view of the members around the offer,” says Maluleke. Eskom wage negotiations Meanwhile, economists say the collapse of the Eskom wage negotiations yesterday, is worrying. “This threatens electricity supply. I suppose workers compare the tariff increase with 1.5 % that Eskom is promising workers,” says  Chief Economist at Econometrix, Dr Azar Jammine. Eskom and the unions, NUM, NUMSA and Solidarity are headed for mediation by the CCMA to try and resolve their wage impasse.