The Ahmed Kathrada Foundation says while it welcomes South Africa’s ratification of an extradition treaty with the United Arab Emirates (UAE), and the laying of criminal charges against the Gupta brothers, it’s still concerned about the implementation of the treaty. The Foundation held a picket outside the UAE embassy in Pretoria on Thursday. It’s called for the extradition process to take place speedily. Protest outside the UAE Embassy in South Africa as part of growing calls to bring the members of the Gupta family to South Africa to answer for their alleged involvement in the State Capture. #sabcnews — Sophie Mokoena (@Sophie_Mokoena) June 10, 2021  Protestors want the UAE and South African governments to ensure that the treaty signed to bring the Gupta brothers and their wives back to South Africa is implemented.  We are joined by members of the public in taking a firm stand against the criminal brigade, calling for the #Guptas to be extradited from UAE! Comrade @RevFChikane says the #Gupta family has messed with the wrong country  pic.twitter.com/QlMhxnhGaQ — Kathrada Foundation (@KathradaFound) June 10, 2021  Among those who picketed outside the United Arab Emirates embassy in Pretoria is former Director-General in the Presidency, Reverend Frank Chikane. He says those who are accused of corrupt activities that threaten the economic standing of the country must be brought to book. Chikane says the Gupta family was central to the looting of state resources. “One of those families that are critical in this regard is the Gupta family and they were critical because they seem to have been the centre, although there are many other families, there were many other business people, but they seem to have been the centre and and access to the president, access to our ministers and what angers sovereignty and our dignity.” The Gupta name has become synonymous with accusations of state capture. The family has been linked to allegations of corruption at parastatals and provincial governments, to the tune of around R49 billion. Arrest warrant for Guptas Meanwhile, the National Prosecuting Authority has requested Interpol to assist in arresting Rajesh Gupta and Atul Gupta, as well as their wives. The NPA wants them to be charged for fraud and money laundering. SABC correspondent in Delhi Neha Poonia reports further in the video below: 