The Democratic Alliance (DA) has called on Home Affairs Minister Aaron Motsoaledi and law enforcement agencies to update Parliament on the progress of investigations into how the Bushiris escaped from South Africa. The party also says Parliament needs an update on their extradition proceedings which started in November last year. DA Shadow Home Affairs Minister, Angel Khanyile, says she will write to Motsoaledi regarding reports that the Bushiris travelled back to South Africa on multiple occasions. The Malawian couple face charges of fraud, money laundering and theft of millions of rand. They initially managed to escape from the country last year while they were out on bail.  We will write to the Minister of Home Affairs, Dr Aaron Motsoaledi, regarding the recent news reports that the fugitives, Shephard and Mary Bushiri, have travelled back to South Africa on multiple occasions. – @angel_khanyilehttps://t.co/wDxEYp976b — Democratic Alliance (@Our_DA) June 21, 2021  Hawks mum on speculations that Bushiris were in SA and invaded arrest again: Meanwhile, the Hawks say they will not comment on speculation that Malawian self-proclaimed prophet, Chipiloro Gama, commonly known as Shepherd Bushiri, was in the country and has once again evaded arrest. The City Press reported that security agencies are investigating credible claims that the wanted fugitive and his wife Mary, have been in the country several times since his dramatic escape in 2020. The paper reports that the Bushiris most recent visit was two months ago. The Hawks’ Philane Nkwalase has called on anyone with information to come forward. “We will, therefore, not be drawn to comment on speculation on this matter. We, therefore, appeal to anyone with credible evidence that supports these speculations that are doing the rounds, to come forward with that information to the police. At the right time, we will bring the country into confidence once there are notable developments on that process.” The Directorate says the process of bringing Bushiri back to South Africa is being handled by competent authorities in line with extradition arrangements, therefore, at the right time, it will inform the country of any developments regarding the extradition process. Advocate Johan du Toit on Shepherd Bushiri and his wife Mary extradition process: 