Eastern Cape provincial government and Communications ministry are seeking to open doors for innovative young people in rural areas. Communications Minister Stella Ndabeni-Abrahams says more than 150 Innovative and Digital Skills Centres will be opened in the Eastern Cape before the end of the year. Speaking at the launch of one of these centres in Mthatha, Ndabeni-Abrahams says most innovative young people will be exposed to digital skills and contribute to the digital economy. “If we are investing in the digital economy, providing skills, providing skills to the young people, we are investing in the future. So that is why we view the step by the Liquid Intelligence Technologies as a great step for the young people of Mthatha to say they too can become the digital economy that you are talking about. Because not only they have access to the internet, they also have access to utilising and providing content on different platforms.” “Digital Skills are key to fight the unemployment among young people to ensure that they are prepared for the jobs of the future… We need to use Private Public partnerships to realize that the objective of making South Africa into a Digital Economy.” – @stellarated @commsza pic.twitter.com/tC9Rf2hRzg — Liquid Intelligent Technologies SA (@LiquidInTechSA) June 11, 2021  Beneficiaries like Chulumanco Mteto and Mzuvelile Mbhoxo have expressed appreciation at the digital Skills facility. “It’s gonna help me right now and in the future with my IT project like PAT and to get more opportunities in the technology world, especially if I am doing a computer science degree,” says Mteto. ‘It’s going to develop my excel skills, my Microsoft and in terms of excel general skills that I will need, not only now but in future,” says Mbhoxo. With an unemployment rate of 43.8%, the Eastern Cape remains the province with the highest rate in the country. Eastern Cape Premier Oscar Mabuyane says this Innovative and Digital Skills Centre is a catalyst for job creation. “This is going to turn around the situation, we want young people to be equipped. We need more skills development from young people. People can now do everything. You can see with all these technology opportunities that are available so we think that it’s an opportunity that needs to be grabbed with both hands, all young people must begin to look at that.” Government seeks to open doors for innovative young people in E Cape: 