Gauteng Premier David Makhura has emphasised the need for more people to be vaccinated against the coronavirus across the province. Gauteng has recorded 465 000 coronavirus cases since the start of the pandemic, of which 19 800 are active infections. Over 11 300 people have died in the province from COVID-19-related complications. Speaking during a media briefing, Makhura says the province is experiencing a third wave of the pandemic. “We want to continue the fight and ensure this province emerges from the third wave, having done everything to contain it but we must continue to vaccinate. I watch the numbers every day about how many people we must vaccinate. I want to see that we are increasing the number of sites every week, but of course, it depends on the allocation in the number of doses we receive; so we must vaccinate more.” Experts say some areas in Gauteng are approaching the third wave of COVID-19:  Adhering to health protocols Makhura has appealed for people to continue adhering to health protocols amid the province’s third wave of the coronavirus pandemic. “If you look at the number of people we are losing to the pandemic, it is still a matter of great concern. So, we would like to say to the people of our province that we are in the middle of the third wave and what happens every week is of great significance about whether the pandemic is gaining more momentum or slowing down. We are not seeing evidence of better compliance. These messages are not getting out there that the pandemic is everywhere.” Concerns over load shedding and water cuts Makhura has raised concerns over load shedding and water cuts across the province, saying the inadequate supply of water and electricity has a negative impact on containing the coronavirus pandemic. Eskom has announced the suspension of its planned load shedding until 5pm in order to allow Parliament to pass the Appropriation Bill. Makhura says they are concerned about the cold weather and the inadequate supply of electricity. “This virus thrives in closed spaces and when people are more indoors than outdoors. So, we are extremely concerned about the coincidence of this cold winter as it is much colder. It is worse when there is an inadequate supply of electricity. I want to deposit this again that we are deeply concerned also about load shedding and the impact of it in our battle against COVID-19. Water cuts have been a matter of great concern which have impacted on our fight against COVID-19 and the communities in Johannesburg.” Gauteng Provincial Command Council media briefing: 