Western Cape Premier Alan Winde says the province is ready to roll out more vaccine sites from Monday. He says to date they have exceeded daily and weekly vaccine targets. This coming week, the department will increase the number of vaccination sites in the province to 154. Winde has urged residents to continue to play their part by ensuring that they are registered if they are eligible to do so. “And in the Western Cape, we are seeing a resurgence of COVID-19 cases. We might not be at the Third Wave as yet, but I notice a steady increase in active cases now at 4 624. And I see that we are over 882 citizens in our hospitals with COVID-19,  at the moment 213 of our beds in our ICU units are taken up by COVID-19 patients,” says Winde. 1/3 As cases increase, it becomes even more important for our residents to take the necessary safety precautions to keep themselves and their loved ones safe. Each & everyone of us has the power to delay the third wave, and lesson its impact, by taking action now. #LetsDoThis pic.twitter.com/axXcWONW4K — Premier Alan Winde (@alanwinde) June 4, 2021  #ICYMI  District vaccination sites as at 2 June 2021 We're bringing more sites online weekly, linked to the supply of vaccines. You can you take a look at the full list of sites here: https://t.co/O0HUEsUDnr. pic.twitter.com/fcdQRBAciF — Western Cape Gov (@WesternCapeGov) June 5, 2021  Vaccination registration drive Residents of Khayelitsha on the Cape Flats say they are benefiting from the Department of Health’s COVID-19 registration drive. Western Cape Health Minister, Nomafrench Mbombo is on a roadshow in various areas to urge senior citizens to register to get vaccinated. Cape Peninsula University of Technology student, Zintle Tyembile, says the instructions are concise and her grandmother has managed to register on her own. “I live with my grandmother. She is 64 years old this year. She went for her vaccine sometime this month and she will return again in July. She followed the steps that are given on the news because I am a student, so most of the time I am in res. At least she is advanced with technology as she owns a smartphone.” Do you need help registering for the COVID-19 vaccine? Staff at our 75 Cape Access Centres are ready to assist! Go to https://t.co/sokVHYU4lX or phone 0860 142 142 to find out where your nearest centre is. #LetsDoThis Read the full statement here: https://t.co/nohuxeleKN. pic.twitter.com/vDXzapCqAS — Western Cape Gov (@WesternCapeGov) June 5, 2021 