Three people have been killed in a head-on collision between a sedan and a truck on the N2 between Peddie and Makhanda in the Eastern Cape on Saturday morning. The victims were all female. The driver of the truck escaped unharmed. Provincial Transport Department spokesperson Unathi Binqose says drunk driving and negligence are suspected to be the main cause of the crash. Binqose says a case of culpable homicide has been opened. “All three occupants of the sedan perished on the scene. The driver of the lorry escaped unharmed. It is an accident that is regrettable, an accident that we believe could have been avoided. It is for that reason that the department is pleading with road users, particularly motorists to be extra cautious on the roads and exercise a bit more patience to avoid accidents like the one we’ve just seen.” In KwaZulu-Natal, one person was killed and fifty others were injured in a bus collision on the P66 between Gingindlovu and Eshowe. It’s alleged the driver lost control of the bus and it left the roadway then rolled down an embankment. IPSS medical rescue spokesperson Paul Herbst says, “IPSS Search and Rescue technicians have accessed the bus and initial triage indicates approximately 50 persons have sustained injuries. Sadly, one person has sustained fatal injuries. IPSS Medical Rescues advanced life support paramedics, along with various other services, are working to stabilize and rescue patients. This is a mass casualty incident and developing story.” In another accident, a taxi rolled on the N2 southbound lane between the Groutville off-ramp north of KwaZulu-Natal. Herbst says it’s believed that the taxi rolled multiple times from the northbound lane before coming to its rest. Herbst says they are on the scene treating and stabilizing the injured passengers. “IPSS medical rescue is currently on the scene on the N2 southbound lane between the Groutville off-ramp. A taxi has rolled multiple times coming from the northbound lane. All the ladies inside the taxi have sustained injuries ranging from moderate to minor. The partial southbound lane is currently closed and only the emergency lane is open. Emergency services are currently working to stabilize the injured they’ll be transported to various facilities for further care.” Additional reporting by: Tracy Valaydham