The Department of Mineral Resources and Energy (DMRE) has dispatched a task team to the area of KwaHlathi near Ladysmith in KwaZulu-Natal to conduct a proper inspection of a site where stones believed to be diamonds have been found. The task team includes geological and mineral experts. News of the purported discovery of diamonds spread across the country on Friday and people are still flocking to the area to dig for the stones. The team from DMRE is expected to be on site from Tuesday and that will include the Department’s Enforcement and Compliance unit to conduct  an inspection  of the site. The team also includes experts from the Council for Mineral Technology (Mintek) and the Council for Geoscience who can give an opinion about the mineral composition of rocks, and can provide an analysis of an area’s potential for mineral resources, respectively. The team also includes the South African Diamond and Precious Metals Regulator as the custodian of all matters related to precious minerals in the country. After the analysis, a formal  technical report will be issued in due course. The traditional communities, local and district municipalities, have been asked to restore calm to the area. The department has asked these structures to relay this information to the affected communities. The community of KwaHlathi say if it is real diamonds, Black people must get first preference in terms of economic opportunities. The residents add that the discovery of the stones goes to show the value of a field of study like Geology. “I think young people must see now it is important to study these studies that are not easily available in rural areas such as Geology because they are important. If they were available they would help us or give us some direction about these stones. So, they must start now to study these studies (sic),” says community member, Thabani Mbatha. Another resident, Vuma Makhwasa, says: “The status of the area is likely to change socially and economically if it is real gold. But the government must make sure that Black people are not only employees, but they have equal shares, as a means of economic empowerment. We want to control the economy now.” People are literally picking up diamonds from the ground in KZN, Ladysmith, KwaHlathi. pic.twitter.com/EK2GYig3AR — Sabza (@SabeloNkabind12) June 13, 2021 