The Pretoria Specialised Commercial Crimes Court has postponed the R1.8 billion fraud and corruption matter involving the politically connected firm, Bosasa, yet again.  This time the move was to allow for all four accused to be present in court. Former Commissioner of Correctional Services, Linda Mti, former  Chief Financial Officer, Patrick Gillingham, former Bosasa CFO, Andries Van Tonder, and Bosasa COO, Angelo Agrizzi face fraud and corruption charges. This relates to the four tenders awarded to Bosasa and its subsidiaries between August 2004 and 2007. Spokesperson for the National Prosecuting Authority’s (NPA)  Investigating Directorate, Sindisiwe Seboka, says the tenders were for rendering catering and training services, among other things. She says Agrizzi was not in court today. “The Bosasa R1.8 billion fraud and corruption matter has been postponed to the 13th of August this year for all the accused to be present in court. The fourth accused which is former Bosasa COO, Angelo Agrizzi, was again a no-show and sent a medical certificate which was handed to court by his lawyer. The other three were present in court.” Bosasa at the State Capture Commission Earlier today former Manager for Supply Management at the SA Civil Aviation authority Mbulelo Gingcana said he did not know nor had ever met Agrizzi before the Agrizzi appeared at the State Capture Commission in Johannesburg. In testimony to the Commission, Agrizzi alleged that Gingcana received R240 000 worth of security installations from Bosasa for free at his home in March 2017. Agrizzi said this was part of the company’s special operations aimed at nurturing high-profile individuals. However, commission evidence leader Refiloe Molefe outlined the affidavit of Bosasa employee Richard Le Roux who disputes Gingcana’s evidence. “Mr. Richard Le Roux says that firstly you are not being honest in denying that you know or spoke to Mr. Agrizzi. He says he was present at the house on a Saturday afternoon when both Mr. Agrizzi and Mr. Dlamini had a meeting with you and that  Mr. Richard Le Roux waited outside the premises and he was requested to go in and to a survey of the house after the meeting concluded. He says he specifically remembers this as Mr. Agrizzi came to get him in a gold Maserati and went with him to the house in order to do a survey of what security equipment is needed.” State Capture Commission hears Bosasa-related evidence: 