Youth Month is under way amidst the third wave of COVID-19 already hitting provinces. Statistics South Africa figures show an increase in the number of young people aged between 15 and 24 who are not employed or getting education and training. For young women, the rate is higher than for men. In Nyanga on the Cape Flats, one of the most dangerous areas to live in the country, there are few opportunities for the youth. For several years, Nyanga has had the dubious honour of being called the murder capital of South Africa. As one of the poorest areas in the city, it is also the most dangerous with murder, rape, armed robbery and theft that is rife. In such a place, there does not seem to be much hope. But many young people from Nyanga, like Ulithemba Qoboka, have fire in their bellies and won’t let where they come from define them. “It’s very difficult to live in this area because there’s lots of crime, gangsterism and most youngsters drink alcohol a lot. They don’t work because they’ve dropped out of school. A place like this will really help us right now, because we need the necessary skills to make sure we are compatible, especially now during COVID-19. So, if someone can learn how to do web development and software development at least you can also work from home and for companies from overseas too.” Ulithemba is beside herself with excitement about the official opening of the Lulwazi Lwethu Youth Skills Centre which has been five years in the making. “Finally it’s going to open now because the computers were stalled the first time. The second time now, we’re like wow and we were praying to God that it will be opening….So how does it feel to be part of something like this? I was dancing while the Minister was speaking inside, the councillor was speaking inside I was like – yeaaah yeaaaah!” Beacon of hope for youth in Nyanga amid COVID-19 pandemic:  Founder of the Lulwazi Lwethu Youth Skills Centre, Lulu Nongogo says, “It is the most dangerous area in all these communities. Maybe within two minutes in this area, you’ll see people are dying, they are being raped but I came with a solution for them – because kids are dropping out of school. Because the reason is the parents cannot afford to take them. So I decided, you know what, instead of letting them roaming around the streets, let me come with a solution and eliminate the crime. Because they say the government is not doing anything. So I said I’m gonna bring the solution to you guys.” The centre will offer a safe space where young people from primary school level will learn, among others, computer skills and coding. A Nyanga resident, Aphele Gwilika, says it’s centres like this and organisations, NGOs and outreach programmes that give the youth of the township hope. “In Nyanga, how you have to live your choice because there’s crime and everything and you have to choose the right direction that you want. For me, it’s to involve yourself with the right organisation that can help you and equip you so that you can achieve good things.” Another resident, Yonela Gebengu says when you live in an area like KTC in Nyanga, finding spaces such as this can also provide opportunities. “Many youth who are on the streets as well, some have art skills, some others know computer, bicycle, some other like to skateboard so I think this also the place where they could meet together and collaborate and share ideas that they could have for themselves in the future as well and stop being on the roads and having ideas to join gangs as well.” Social Development Minister Lindiwe Zulu says the creation of spaces such as Lulwazi Lwethu, must be expanded. “Life does not being and end under these current difficult circumstances.  We all have to work together as a nation and in particular ourselves as government we have to work together to create a conducive environment for young people. It is our responsibility as government and communities to get our children off the streets, to get our children to schools, to make sure that they become even creative themselves because it’s not always about studying, finishing your studies, going to university and looking for a job.” Zulu is also making an urgent appeal to big business to create a conducive environment for young people. She says the youth are not lazy — they just need a little help to find opportunities to spread their wings.