Deputy President David Mabuza has weighed in regarding the R150 million Digital Vibes scandal allegedly linked to Health Minister Zweli Mkhize. He was addressing a group of military veterans in Limpopo on Saturday. The Special Investigative Unit (SIU) is probing allegations that the minister benefited from the money paid to Digital Vibes to do public relations work for the department. The Democratic Alliance (DA) is among those calling for the resignation of Mkhize. Mabuza says people should wait for the outcome of the investigation. “Of course if there are allegations they will always disrupt the thinking of government but I think we should take from what the President has said that this is being attended to. We will wait for the final version of the investigations by the SIU and then the President will then take the matter forward.” The Deputy President speaks about Digital Vibes scandal towards the end of this video clip:  Earlier the Special Investigation Unit’s Kaizer Kganyago says they’re still investigating and plan to conclude the probe soon:  Mabuza addresses concerns of military veterans Deputy President David Mabuza says about R654 million meant to assist military veterans is lying idle in the Department of Defence and is not being used because the department has not been working properly. Mabuza was addressing a group of military veterans in Limpopo on Saturday. He’s urged military veterans to form one single group – instead of fighting one another. “Well, the money has not been used, it lies in the department because there is a number of problems but the military veterans are complaining.  The biggest problem that we are facing is the verification program which affects the none statutory forces.” Mabuza says he hopes that now that a Director-General of the department has been appointed,  military veterans will get the assistance they want. He has urged military veterans across all the political spectrum to organise themselves and to enable the government to adequately support them. Military veterans often complain about a lack of decent housing, health services, and jobs. ‘Disunity among veterans’ Mabuza says disunity and groupings among military veterans and ex-combatants are undermining the government’s efforts to address their challenges. He says military veterans from former liberations parties are also battling with verification of struggle credentials. “You must try and organise yourselves, we don’t want these groupings amongst yourselves because we don’t understand why you are fighting amongst yourselves. You are a community that is getting smaller and smaller, you are a community that is aging so why would old people fight among themselves, MKVA, and the military council you must go and solve your issues with immediate effect. It’s not good for this community.” Mabuza interacts with veterans from the South African Defence Force, Mkhonto we Sizwe, Azanian Peoples’ Liberation Army, and the Venda Defence Force in Polokwane, Limpopo. Deputy President David Mabuza engaged with veterans from the South African Defence Force, Mkhonto we Sizwe, Azanian Peoples’ Liberation Army and the Venda Defence Force:  Although they are still disgruntled, veterans believe there is now a glimmer of hope. “I am from Azanla MVA, hopefully, our problems will be attended to once the partnership can be forged between us and the national government. ” MK National Council’s Emmanuel Maake says, “We have had all the sorts of problems including health, housing, pensions school fees for children, we are basically struggling.” Some military veterans were not happy that they were denied entry to the venue where Mabuza was addressing them. They were not on the list of those who were expected to enter the rugby stadium. 