The Beer Association of South Africa (BASA) says it is seeking legal advice following the latest alcohol sales ban under lockdown Alert Level 4. President Cyril Ramaphosa announced a ban for on and off-site liquor sales for 14 days. BASA CEO Patricia Pillay, says the illegal alcohol trade took away more than R11 billion from the fiscus during the previous bans. She says this number is likely to increase in the coming weeks. “This is really a debt hell for our businesses and the jobs in the industry and I think we are at a point now where we are seeking legal advice in terms of this inexplicable decision to implement this fourth ban. It has the unintended consequence of really increasing the illicit alcohol industry. The referral monitors study that was commissioned shows that the national fiscus lost R11.3 billion last year alone – to illicit alcohol trade.” On Monday, BASA expressed disappointment over Cabinet’s banning of the sale of alcohol for the next 14 days. Below is the full interview with BASA CEO Patricia Pillay:  The National liquor Traders Council (NLTC) has warned that some industry members are considering defying the recent ban on the sale of alcohol, saying employees need to earn an income to support their families. Ramaphosa says the new restrictions will help slow the further spread of the coronavirus. NTLC convener Lucky Ntimane says, “The President can make an announcement that subjects our liquor traders to almost perpetual poverty without providing other means that are going to cushion against the blow that this ban is going to bring to our traders. We feel that it is unfair that the industry continues to be targetted this way.” “We are not going to let this decision by the President stand. We are going to take him on, we are going to consult with our members today. If needs be, it means we will defy this ban. Who is going to support us for the next two weeks? What is better? Breaking the law for supporting our families? For us, we feel that we need to be taken seriously and we will do that, and whatever is necessary,” says Ntimane.