Workers at LFC Milling Company at Wesselsbron in the Free State have called on their bosses to dismiss employees who discriminate against Black staff. They allege that there’s an employee, who abuses workers and frequently uses the “K” word. They also complained about low wages and victimisation. The workers, led by Neawusa, marched and handed over a memorandum of demands to the company. They say they’ve worked over a decade with no salary increase. Those who were injured on duty are still waiting to be compensated. Frans Gasengake says he has been working for LFC Milling for 14 years without any promotion. He got injured on duty in 2016, but to date, he has not been compensated. “I have been working here since 2007 and I got injured in 2016 until today I have never received any compensation so it is very bad, very bad because now the company is improving but their employees are very poor,” explains Gasengake. Workers also accuse LFC Milling of failing to address work-related issues, such as appointments and overtime payments. “Most of the people who are working here, they are not being compensated well as they get injured at work but now we are very fortunate  to have a union such as this because now they are fighting for us so that we work in a good working environment.” “I was held hostage, I was praying for my life as they were trying to kill me. But the next day I was told to come to work.” Neawusa is calling for equal work and equal pay to apply to all workers. The union’s Secretary-General, Tsiliso Lenepa, says they have given the management seven days to respond to the demands. “The demands is wages worth R6 500 to the lowest, we have been talking with the employers since last year….whereby we deadlocked and we have been trying to talk to the employer in a way that he must understand all the issues. As well as the provident fund that must be transferred from the Sacawu fund to the hospitality fund. And the other thing is the discrimination that is in here whereby black workers are treated in a very bad manner.” The management of the LFC Milling Company has declined to comment. Neawusa members protest against LFC Milling company: 