Three people have been killed in a multi-vehicle collision the N2 between Gingingdlovu and Nyoni on the KwaZulu-Natal (KZN) North Coast. IPSS Medical spokesperson Paul Herbst says one person sustained serious injuries. “On arrival of advanced life support paramedics, it was established that two vehicles had collided head on, before becoming engulfed in flames. The collision allegedly occurred after a separate vehicle had struck and killed a pedestrian, causing vehicles to swerve to avoid the scene, when one collided with an oncoming vehicle.” Shooting incident on N2 KZN police have confirmed that they are looking for three suspects who shot at a police officer on the N2 at the Tongaat Toll Plaza. It is alleged that police were conducting stop and search operations when three suspects in a vehicle opened fire on them. IPSS Facebook Herbst says one police officer sustained minor injuries. “It’s believed that the Durban flying squad was doing a stop and search at the toll gate when they stopped a suspicious vehicle. On searching the vehicle three of the suspects got out of the vehicle and started shooting at the police. One member of the police was shot and sustained a flesh wound. The driver of the vehicle managed to get away and three suspects ran into the bush.” Eastern Cape accident claims four lives On Friday, four people died in a collision between two cars and a truck on the R75 between Graaff-Reinet and Jansenville in the Eastern Cape. Provincial Transport Department spokesperson Unathi Binqose says four occupants of one of the cars died on the scene. “There was another car involved, it was also a sedan, and, thankfully, the occupants of that sedan, as well as the articulated truck, escaped with their lives. It is a bad accident, one that we believe could have been avoided. The MEC for Transport in the Eastern Cape Weziwe Tikana-Gxothiwe is continuously calling on motorists to exercise caution on the road and, most importantly, be patient at all times to avoid avoidable accidents like head-on collisions.”