Some of the residents of Polokwane in Limpopo are sceptical about the announcement by President Cyril Ramaphosa to place the country under Alert Level 4 of the lockdown. President Cyril Ramaphosa addresses the nation on the country’s fight against the coronavirus:  They say it will have a negative effect on the economy, resulting in job losses. “I feel okay because at the alcohol places, there is a lot of people you know, and it increases COVID-19 (infections),” says one of the residents. Other residents are concerned about the effect the restrictions will have on the economy.  “For me, I don’t think it is the best option because most shops are going to be closed and most people are going to lose money and more people are going to be unemployed. This is totally not going the right way and hopefully, the government is going to come up with suggestions that are crucial and yet rejuvenate the economy.” A discussion on the possible impact of the coronavirus on the economy:  Vaccination Meanwhile, the vaccination of elderly citizens above the age of 60 is continuing. The senior citizens are starting to return for the second dose of the Pfizer vaccine. Limpopo Health MEC Phophi Ramathuba says the pace of vaccination is moving without major obstacles. “We are still comfortable with the pace at which we are vaccinating. Today it is one of the most important days because it is the first day when those who received the first dosage of Pfizer which was on the 17th of May, today they are due for their second dosage.” The province still plans to administer just above 7 000 vaccines for educators. Education Department spokesperson Tidimalo Chuene has encouraged educators who have registered to present themselves at the vaccination sites. “The total number of educators and supporting staff vaccinated over the weekend in Limpopo is 30 314. We still have over 7 000 doses from our batch of 38 400 and instructions on how the remainder will be vaccinated will be communicated in due course. We are happy with the turnout and continue to encourage educators and staff who will be scheduled for vaccination in the coming days to show up.” Limpopo has no reported cases of the highly transmissible Delta variant so far.