Nulane Investment representative, Dinesh Patel has been granted R10 000 bail by the Bloemfontein Magistrate’s Court. Patel, who is also Iqbal Sharma‘s brother-in-law, faces charges of fraud, corruption and money laundering. The charges relate to the R24.9 million paid by the Free State Department of Agriculture for a feasibility study on potential farming projects in the Free State. The State did not oppose Patel’s application stating that he is not a flight risk and has no pending cases or previous convictions. The defence agreed that the accused will not tamper with witnesses in this case. Magistrate Mbuyiselo Didi said: “The court is satisfied with the reasons provided by the defence. Bail is granted on condition that the applicant hand over his passports and if he wants to travel abroad.” Minister Lamola says UAE not cooperating Justice and Correctional Services Minister Ronald Lamola says the United Arab Emirates is not co-operating with South Africa, in accordance with the extradition treaty ratified by the two countries. Lamola briefed the media last Friday after the National Prosecuting Authority’s Investigating Directorate asked Interpol for assistance to get the Guptas deported to South Africa to face charges of corruption, fraud and money laundering. The agreement between South Africa and the UAE on extradition and legal assistance in criminal matters was signed in 2018. Lamola says South Africa will continue to pursue this matter until justice is served. “Irrespective of the fact that both South Africa and the UAE ratified this convention, regrettably we have to date not experienced a level of appreciation and cooperation which is required in terms of the convention in the fight against corruption from the UAE. However, we will continue to pursue our counterparts through diplomatic channels in order to reach the desired levels of cooperation to enable our law enforcement agencies to bring to justice persons of interest of any investigations they are pursuing.” In the video below Minister Ronald Lamola updates on extradition treaties between SA and UAE: 