The South African Democratic Teachers Union (Sadtu) in KwaZulu-Natal says they are concerned about a lack of information on the location of vaccination sites for educators in the province. The union’s provincial secretary Nomarashiya Caluza says they are only aware of one site in Umlazi, south of Durban. More than 580 000 teachers and support staff are expected to be vaccinated nationally over the next two weeks. Minister of Basic Education Angie Motshekga made this announcement over the weekend:  Caluza says they are hoping to receive a list of sites ahead of tomorrow’s rollout. “I would be lying if I said we have information in regard to that. The only thing that we know is that there is one site that is Umlazi, which was the only station or centre that was mentioned in the meeting that we had with the department yesterday. We did enquire as Sadtu to say where are these centres because even if we look at the document from DBE (Department of Basic Education), it is only the numbers to say this district, there are so many stations but to give the specific names of the specific centres, to say where, that information was not given to us.” Vaccination of teachers and support staff will commence from Wednesday: <span data-mce-type="bookmark" style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;" class="mce_SELRES_start">﻿</span> Meanwhile, a Durban educator, who wants to remain anonymous, says information around the vaccine roll out to educators has not yet reached her school, leaving her feeling uncertain. “They have not been precise or clear as to what the procedure is. As to how the schools will accommodate educators leaving the premises, moving to other premises, nothing has been discussed about how teachers will be transported to a venue if they have to change a venue, how they will be accommodated at school. Today is the 22nd, no circular has come to our school to indicate who will be getting the vaccination, how will the process take place, how will the area be set up, what are the times dedicated for educators to get the vaccination. None of that.” The KwaZulu-Natal Department of Education was not yet available for comment.