The Department of Basic Education is satisfied with the first day of the vaccination programme in the basic education sector across the country. Vaccination was incident-free on the first day of the vaccination rollout programme for educators in the Eastern Cape. There are 67 sites set up to vaccinate more than 70 000 teachers and support staff. This is happening against the backdrop of rising infections in the province. Although the third wave has not hit the province, concerns are raised as the number of COVID-19 active cases continue to rise. Department of Health spokesperson in the province, Sizwe Kupelo, says the fake news that was circulating, claiming that the Department of Health will run out of vaccines in the province, did not affect the turnout of educators at the various sites. “The department is happy with how the education sector vaccination went yesterday (Wednesday). Of the 67 sites 66 were active and the numbers are promising. We are continuing in all the sites this morning (Thursday). We are still continuing with all the 45 6000 doses of Johnson and Johnson that were delivered. Of course, we still expect delivery of another 31 000 doses,” says Kupelo. AUDIO: Sizwe Kupelo says the first day of vaccination was a success  The Northern Cape Education Department has recorded a total of 735 vaccinations for Educators and support staff in the province on the first day. The Department aims to vaccinate 16 100 staff members in the education sector over the next fourteen days. Vaccinations for the education sector started yesterday after Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga announced 580 000 staff in the public and private sector is set to be vaccinated in the next two weeks. Northern Cape Education MEC Zolile Monakali encourages all educators in the province to take the jab. “We have established 29 vaccination sites across the Province. We currently have 16 vaccination sites fully operational and the other 13 sites are scheduled to open today and tomorrow. Although the vaccination is voluntary, we want to sincerely encourage our educators to take the vaccine and overcome possible hesitancy. This is a concern to the Department as this programme is aimed to safeguard the lives of our educators and support staff at schools against COVID-19,” says MEC Zolile Monakali.