Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) leader Julius Malema has given the Department of Basic Education seven days to close down all schools or face a forceful total shutdown. He was briefing the media in Johannesburg on Thursday. He says the country is now on a third wave of COVID-19 infections and should be concerned about the lives of learners. Infections have been increasing with the country recording almost 9 000 coronavirus cases in the last 24 hours. [MUST WATCH]: The EFF calls for the schools to close with immediate effect. We give the Minister of education 7 days to close schools, failing which, the EFF will be left with no choice but to close the schools. #EFFPresser pic.twitter.com/gUewsRgEA4 — Economic Freedom Fighters (@EFFSouthAfrica) June 10, 2021   Electoral Commission Malema says the IEC would compromise the integrity of former Deputy Chief Justice Dikgang Moseneke if it forges ahead with the holding of the 2021 municipal elections – without his report. The commission has announced that it is ready to hold the 2021 local elections as planned on the 27th of October. This is despite the IEC still waiting for the Moseneke report on whether the conditions are conducive to hold the local polls. Malema says going ahead with elections without the much-awaited Moseneke report would impinge on his integrity and reputation. He is unyielding on his position that the 2021 Local Government Elections will be a super spreader for the coronavirus and he has two options for the 27th October polls. Firstly, he says these elections should be harmonised with the provincial and national elections in 2024; and secondly, if all fails they should be postponed until early next year when the virus has subsided. [In Case You Missed It]: We condemn the hypocritical and manipulative initiative by the IEC to launch the 2021 Local Government Elections. Continuing with preparations and all related events regarding 2021 LGE whilst the Moseneke Commission is taking place is dishonest. pic.twitter.com/swfLEgasOV — Economic Freedom Fighters (@EFFSouthAfrica) June 10, 2021  The EFF says it will make a presentation before Moseneke to convince him to help save lives by setting a new date to hold free and fair elections. EFF leader Julius Malema briefs the media on Local Government Elections and other issues:  ‘Profit before lives’ Malema has also accused President Cyril Ramaphosa of putting profit before the lives of South Africans by denying them access to the Chinese and Russian vaccines. The Health Department wants to vaccinate 40 million people. It has so far given more than 1.5 million people a jab. EFF says the government is only interested in making profits at the expense of poor people. 