The handful of uMkhonto weSizwe Military Veterans Association (MKMVA) members stationed outside the home of former President Jacob Zuma in Nkandla in northern KwaZulu-Natal have added their voices to those denouncing the Constitutional Court judgment against Zuma. Zuma has been sentenced to 15 months imprisonment for contempt after he defied a court order to appear before the Commission of Inquiry into State Capture. The MKMVA’s Mfanafuthi Gumede says they believe Zuma’s rights have been violated. Gumede says, “The President’s rights have been violated. As a senior citizen he should not be going through all this, we hold the view that being stationed here in Nkandla and we are at the right place to protect the President while the land struggle is continuing.” “We feel that President Zuma’s persecution is because he is one pushing that the land should be returned to its rightful owners but we are observing that what others are doing to president Zuma shows they want to stop the land issue being openly discussed,” added Gumede. #sabcnews #sabckzn Members of MKMVA have have stopped SAPS car from going to Zuma’s home. The group is outside Zuma’s Nkandla home questioned the police officer from Nkandla police station about his intention to the visit. The police vehicle and police officers have since — Nonkululeko Hlophe (@Leko3) June 30, 2021  #sabcnews #sabckzn The handful of MKMVA members outside the home of former president Jacob Zuma in Nkandla have added their voices to those denouncing the Constitutional Court judgment against Zuma. The MKMVA’s Mfanafuthi Gumede says they believe Zuma’s rights have been violated — Nonkululeko Hlophe (@Leko3) June 30, 2021  #sabcnews #sabckzn Earlier scenes outside the former president Jacob Zuma’s home in Nkandla. Police car turned away by MKMVA from the gate. pic.twitter.com/hpbsKis6nA — Nonkululeko Hlophe (@Leko3) June 30, 2021  The African National Congress (ANC) Veterans’ League says the Constitutional Court judgment against Zuma will send a strong message to South Africans that they must account for their actions. In a major ruling on Tuesday, the court sentenced Zuma to 15 months in jail for contempt of court, violating the authority of the court and repeatedly attacking the dignity of the judiciary. Zuma has until Sunday to present himself to a police station either in Nkandla in Northern KwaZulu-Natal or in Johannesburg. If Zuma fails to do so, Police Minister Bheki Cele and the National Commissioner General Khehla Sitole must ensure that he is delivered to prison authorities. The League’s President Snuki Zikalala has commended the court for rejecting suggestions that Zuma should be given a suspended sentence on condition that he testified at the Commission of Inquiry into State Capture. “[Acting Deputy Chief] Justice Sisi Khampepe made it very clear that Zuma is the first South African President to refuse to appear before the commission, so he did that with impunity. Saying he is ready to go to jail, now if you say that ,what example is he making to our people,” adds Zikalala. 15-month jail sentence for Zuma:  MKMVA members have vowed to remain on guard outside the Zuma residence in Nkandla. They say they are determined to protect him against arrest. Zuma had failed to attend the hearings of the Commission of Inquiry into State Capture – despite the apex court ordering him to do so. The MKMVA members have been camping outside Zuma’s home since April. Zuma supporters expected to gather in Nkandla following his sentencing: 