Parliament’s Health Portfolio Committee Chairperson, Dr Sibongiseni Dhlomo, says Minister Zweli Mkhize has been legally advised not to be present at a Parliament Health Committee meeting on Friday morning. Mkhize was scheduled to appear before the Committee following claims that he was involved in a R150 million irregular contract between his department and communications firm, Digital Vibes. Dhlomo says the Minister was advised against appearing due to an ongoing probe by the Special Investigating Unit (SIU). Video: Parliament’s Portfolio Committee on Health meeting  “He has been advised that because of this investigation in his department that involves or touches his name, that legally it is not correct for them that he be the one leading the delegation to brief us. We will have the DG leading the delegation to explain and take us through the report. The Minister is unable to be here after being legally advised because the process is an investigation in the department which touches the Minister’s name,” says Dhlomo. Director-General in the Health department, Sandile Buthelezi has confirmed that their forensic investigation into the awarding of the Digital Vibes contract has found that it was irregular. Buthelezi has told Parliament’s Portfolio Committee of Health that the report has been handed over to the SIU for further investigation. He says that as the department, they cannot act on the recommendations of their own report as they’re awaiting finalisation of the SIU report. He has also told the committee that he’s received legal advice to refrain from commenting on the matter following a case opened by the Democratic Alliance (DA) in Cape Town against him and Mkhize. “Now that the matter has been reported officially to the SAPS, I’ve also been guided by the attorneys of the department that I must refrain from commenting on the report on the basis that the report is with the SIU. It is after they are done with them that we will be able to act,” says Buthelezi. Corruption allegations | DA lays charges against health minister and his director-general 