Elderly people who live in rural areas, outside Kuruman in the Northern Cape, might have to wait longer before they get their COVID-19 vaccine. Unlike their urban counterparts, the provincial Department of Health says villages are harder to access due to bad roads. The elderly from villages including Galothlare, Gadibowe and Tjowe are wondering how and when they will receive the COVID-19 jab. Most of them with comorbidities say they only hear about the vaccine rollout on the radio. They say they are yet to see health workers coming to register them to be inoculated. One of the elderly people says, “We have not heard anything. Are we forgotten or what? All of us here have not received help.” “We haven’t received the vaccine, how are we going to survive? They only know us when they need votes,” adds another one. Provincial Health MEC Maruping Lekwene says they have plans to include far-flung rural areas as part of their rollout. “It is vast and unfortunately with bad roads so we are hoping to try and bring some of these elderly to a central point where we can really assist them. The best intervention will be through outreach teams where we will get those bakkies. With the Johnson and Johnson, it will help us cover our far-flung areas,” says Lekwene. The elderly say rural areas are always an after-thought when it comes to receiving services and a case in point is the COVID-19 vaccine rollout. Registration process:  South Africa's vaccine roll-out has reached its second phase, where people over 60 & those living with commorbidities are expected to get inoculated.  South Africa's registration progress for COVID-19 vaccines has reached its second phase VACCINATION PROGRESS Vaccination Sites Vaccine types There are a number of vaccination sites across the country, in all nine provinces of South Africa. Each province has at least 5 active vaccination sites. For all sites click here > https://bit.ly/3tNkKgc  The plan is to roll-out Pfizer and Johnson & Johnson vaccines. The Pfizer vaccine is ready for distribution and will be given to people from Monday, 17 May whilst the J&J is still awaiting approval from international bodies. 2 Registration Portal Those eligible to register for vaccination in Phase Two can click here >  https://vaccine.enroll.health.gov.za/#/ First inline will be people over 60 years of age. Vaccination is voluntary. 1 How to Register on EVDS The EVDS (Electronic Vaccination Data System) is where individuals will register to get an appointment for vaccination. After successful registration you will get an SMS notification with a unique code, ﻿the time and place for your vaccination.  4 3 Care for others Friends are really important… We help each other whenever we can, so it’s a two-way street, and supporting them uplifts me.’  Caring for others is often an important part of keeping up relationships with people close to you. It can even bring you closer together. 7 Ask for help None of us are superhuman. We all sometimes get tired or overwhelmed by how we feel or when things don’t go to plan.  If things are getting too much for you and you feel you can’t cope, ask for help. Your family or friends may be able to offer practical help or a listening ear. Local services are there to help you. 6 Drink sensibly We often drink alcohol to change our mood. Some people drink to deal with fear or loneliness, but the effect is only temporary.  When the drink wears off, you feel worse because of the way the alcohol has affected your brain and the rest of your body. 5 Caring for others is often an important part of keeping up relationships with people close to you. It can even bring you closer together. Accept who you are We’re all different. It’s much healthier to accept that you’re unique than to wish you were more like someone else.  Feeling good about yourself boosts your confidence to learn new skills, visit new places and make new friends. Good self-esteem helps you cope when life takes a difficult turn. 10 Number of vaccines acquired South Africa has acquired 12 million vaccine doses from the COVAX facility. 9 million vaccine doses from Johnson & Johnson, whilst Pfizer has committed 20 million doses to the country. MILLION doses 41 Talking can be a way to cope with a problem you’ve been carrying around in your head for a while.  Just being listened to can help you feel supported and less alone. And it works both ways. If you open up, it might encourage others to do the same. Talk about your feelings 9 (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document)); 