The bail application of the eight men accused of murder attempted murder and kidnapping continues at the Piet Retief Magistrate Court in Mkhondo, Mpumalanga, on Friday morning. The men are accused of killing Sifiso Nene and Musa Thwala at Pampoenkraal farm in August last year. On Thursday, the court heard from the evidence by the investigating officer, Emmanuel Nhlapho, that the victims were badly assaulted, electrocuted and also had water poured on them. However, their defence tabled reasons and facts of the accused distancing themselves from the alleged crime. The accused, Zenzele Yende, Werner Potgieter, Cornelius Greyling are also suspects in the Coka brothers trial where they stand accused of murder, attempted murder, kidnapping and defeating the ends of justice. They are currently out on R10 000 bail each. Mpumalanga murders  Suspects accused of the murder of Musa Nene and Sfiso Thwala appearing the in Piet Retief Magistrate court #SABCNews pic.twitter.com/wENHJ4ZBmB — Tumelo Machogo ® (@IamTumelo) June 3, 2021  The 8th accused (Nkosinathi Msibi) informed of the charges. He is also facing murder, attempted murder, kidnapping and defeating the ends of justice #SABCNews pic.twitter.com/tCYMarbxID — Tumelo Machogo ® (@IamTumelo) June 3, 2021  Families seek justice The Thwala and Nene families from Driefontein had been waiting for justice of their brothers. Thwala’s sister, Nomalanga Thwala, says the arrest has brought hope that there will be justice for the two deceased. She says they have many unanswered questions regarding the murder of their loved one. “We are feeling a bit of relief now that the arrest has taken place. Although it was mixed emotions because it took us back to the moment when we heard the news,” says Thwala. Thwala says she is hopeful that justice will prevail. “It has been a journey, a long one, but now there is a bit of hope that justice will prevail finally.” Seven men accused of the murder of Musa Nene and Sfiso Thwala are expected to appear in Piet Retief Magistrate court. Nene and Thwala were allegedly assaulted to death in August 2020. Three of the accused are out on R10 000 bail on the murder of Amos and Zenzele Coka #SABCNews — Tumelo Machogo ® (@IamTumelo) June 3, 2021 