The funeral service of ANC stalwart Mama Ivy Gcina is currently underway at Feather Market Centre in Gqeberha. The 84 year old Gcina died on Thursday last week after a long illness. She was an ANC MP from 1994 until 2004.#sabcnews pic.twitter.com/L7kqhcmH1J — ISILO SaseRhini (@McebisiNgqina) June 4, 2021  She also served on various structures of different women’s organisations during the apartheid era. She served in the Women’s Committee of the Port Elizabeth Black Civic Organisation and was also the first chairperson of the Port Elizabeth Women’s Organisation. “It actually hurts our feelings that we couldn’t spend more time with you during your weakest moments. We will miss you makhulu, your spirit and your strength live on in each of us and in the lives that you touched with your love, wisdom, strength and the beauty of your soul. Siyauthanda makhulu, you truly were a special woman. We thank you for your sacrifices and everything you have done for us.” Mama Gcina lost her three sons in the struggle while they were serving as soldiers of uMkhonto weSizwe while her daughter died of natural causes. ANC Stalwart a icon Ivy Gcina who fought against the apartheid system a leader of PEWO, she stood for our people whilst she was tortured, beaten, suffocated, detained by the Security Branch. She lost her own children in front line of our liberation struggle. It is so sad. pic.twitter.com/feRWlVJdgF — Andile Lungisa (@mrlungisa) May 28, 2021  “We are looking at someone who actually is a special kind, is a member that we want to see in the African National Congress. A person of integrity, a person of discipline, a very dedicated member, a very committed member of the African National Congress. We should all emulate this generation, it’s a generation that knew very well that it’s not about them, but it’s about the future of this country.” Minister of Defence and Military Veterans Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula praised Mama Gcina as an unsung heroine and stalwart of the freedom struggle. “She was forever at the forefront as she fought against the heinous apartheid policy of the national party. She was never deterred by the brutality of the security forces of the racist regime. She never wilted, even when more stringent security regulations were enacted by the regime in the dark days of apartheid.” Mama Gcina leaves behind her two siblings and her six grandchildren.