The latest Northern Cape crime statistics have revealed a decline in crime across the province. Acting police commissioner in the province, Henrietta de Waal, says the province has seen a significant decrease in sexual offenses and murder. Major de Waal was speaking during the presentation of the crime statistics for the fourth quarter of the 2020/21 financial year. The Northern Cape Province has reported a decrease in murder and attempted murder cases. The most significant decrease is the sexual offences by 77 cases in the quarter of 2020/2021 financial year. Acting Provincial Police Commissioner, Henrietta de Waal explains, “We did decrease murders with two cases. In terms of sexual offenses we had a decrease of 77 cases. That was significant for our province because that is normally the categories that are very high. In terms of attempted murder, we have an increase of one case. In terms of assault with intent to inflict grievous bodily harm, we’ve had a decrease of 219 cases.” The province has reported an increase of over 30% in non-residential properties robberies, while robberies have decreased in residential areas. “In terms of your category, sub-category of your aggravated robberies, we saw a decrease in your car hi-jackings, your robberies at residential premises. However, robberies in your non-residential properties, we saw an increase of 30 cases, that boils down to 32%. But our malicious damage to property increased with 11 cases, and that’s what actually contributed basically to this was also most of our poorest actions during this quarter.” De Waal also announced a budget allocation, which will be used to purchase new police vehicles. “It is a known factor that we do have shortages with human resources as well as vehicles at some of our stations its coupled to the availability of the budget. So, we did get a budget for vehicles for this year. So we already ordered new vehicles and hopefully we would be able to address the shortages at some of those stations that do experience the shortage.” Premier Zamani Saul says even though the crime stats have decreased, there are shortcomings that still need to be addressed. “Whilst we are encouraged by the decreasing numbers, we must, however, address the shortcomings and challenges faced by both crime fighters and the community in this important service. Gender-based violence still remains a cause for concern. We understand that police cannot be everywhere to prevent these crimes, hence our communities must be vigilant. SAPS needs to boost their investigation capacity, as many cases do not make it for successful prosecution,” he says. Meanwhile, the cases of common assault have dropped by 41% in the province. Commercial crimes have increased by 39 cases. These crimes committed mainly on internet and social media during the hard lockdown period, where people used online platforms to falsely advertise items.