The ANC’s Head of Organising and National Executive Committee member, Nomvula Mokonyane, is the latest public figure to contract the coronavirus. This was revealed in a statement from the governing party on Friday afternoon. The party says the former Cabinet Minister is now in self-isolation and will continue to execute her party responsibilities from home. “The ANC wishes her a speedy recovery. Comrade Nomvula’s courage and resolve to beat COVID 19 should inspire all of us to stand together against this pandemic. We also wish many other South Africans who are battling with COVID-19 well. We must continue to defend each other and protect one another. We ask all South Africans to show compassion and solidarity with those who are infected and to offer support to all families who have lost their loved ones due to COVID 19,” it says. The statement was followed by a rebuke from the governing party over super-spreader events. The party slammed what it terms, is reckless behaviour of its own members who gathered outside the High Court in Johannesburg in support of the party’s suspended Secretary-General, Ace Magashule, despite the court proceedings being held virtually and the Economic Freedom Fighters’ (EFF) protest to the South African Health Products Regulatory Authority (SAHPRA). The red berets are calling for the approval of the Sputnik and Sinovac vaccines as the country grapples with a surge in COVID-19 infections. South Africa is currently administering the J&J and Pfizer vaccines. Julius Malema addresses masses gathered for vaccines march:  The ANC is warning against behaviour that contributes further to burdening the health system. “The gatherings were not only wholly unwarranted they were also a blatant disregard for the lives of our people.  In Gauteng Province, 5 842 people are hospitalised as a result of COVID-19, and a total of 584 458 people have been vaccinated to date.  To gather in large gatherings in the height of the third wave truly undermines the efforts of many health workers who are currently under intense pressure in our healthcare facilities,” says the governing ANC. Reaction to Gauteng’s COVID-19 crisis:  The ANC is urging all leaders of society to provide “responsible leadership at this challenging time so that we can all save lives.” “We urge all our people and all leaders to do everything in their power to avoid all super-spreader events,” it adds. The party believes that South Africa will only be able to reduce the rate of transmissions and defeat the pandemic when all stakeholders worker together. More than 1.8 million South Africans have tested positive for the coronavirus and 59 258 others have succumbed to it. It has so far administered 2 312 873 vaccines since it first began its inoculation process in February. (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document));