The man who has been arrested in connection with the murder of Anele Bhengu has appeared briefly in the uMbumbulu Magistrate’s Court south of Durban. Bhengu’s body was found in a bush meters away from the home of a friend she was visiting. Her throat was slit and she had several stab wounds. Bhengu’s family believes she was murdered because she was openly lesbian. Members of the LGBTQI+ community gathered outside the court to support Bhengu’s family. They sang on top of their voices, urging the court not to release the man accused of killing Anele Bhengu on bail. #sabcnews #sabckzn Scenes outside the Mbumbulu magistrate court ahead of the appearance of the accused in relation to the killing openly Lesbian woman Anele Bhengu in KwaMakhutha. pic.twitter.com/rfR9rDRZFs — Nonkululeko Hlophe (@Leko3) June 21, 2021  The accused, Thulani Cele, was arrested in Port Shepstone last Thursday.  Cele is for now facing two charges, murder and assault with the intention to do grievous bodily harm. Amongst those who were in court was the elderly sister of the victim, Busisiwe Bhengu. She says they want justice. “I am angry, at the same time I am hurt but at the moment I find peace in that the accused will remain in custody. We do not need such people in our community, we won’t be safe.  The way he was so brutal in attacking my younger sister for no reason, as Anele’s sister I want justice for Anele, I wish a death sentence can be given in this case.” The Chairperson of the KwaZulu-Natal Task Team on Hate Crimes against LGBTQI+ people, Nonhlanhla Mkhize, says the courts should not be lenient in such cases. “So, as Lesbians, Gays, Bisexual and Transgender community we are very much aware and clear that today’s sitting in court is a bail application but from where we are, as angry as we are and disheartened, we do not want these perpetrators to be let go.  It will be against what we deem to be justice for these perpetrators to be still roaming out on our streets. At this point in time their mannerism, the brutality expressed, gives you a sense that there is no humanity where these people are concerned. “ #sabcnews #sabckzn In pictures outside the Mbumbulu magistrate ahead of the appearance of the accused in relation to the killing of an openly Lesbian woman Anele Bhengu in KwaMakhutha. They say the do not want the accused to be given bail. pic.twitter.com/001uYHxy83 — Nonkululeko Hlophe (@Leko3) June 21, 2021  The matter has been postponed to 30 June for a bail application.