Former president Jacob Zuma’s son Edward says law enforcement agencies will have to kill him before taking his father to jail. Edward Zuma was reacting a Constitutional Court judgment, sentencing his father to 15 months in prison. “Well as Edward Zuma I think my position has been known and I still maintain my position that you know whatever decision are taken by law enforcement to of this country well they have to kill me first, before such thing is implemented, once again I’m saying whatever decision law enforcement agencies decide if that drastic decision happens to be taken then they will have to pass by me, meaning I will lay down my life for President Zuma they are not going to take him to prison when I’m still alive,” he told journalists at the family home at Nkandla in northern KwaZulu-Natal. More on the former President’s son’s views in the video below:  MKMVA guarding premises Members of the Umkhonto we Sizwe Military Veterans Association (MKMVA) have vowed to remain on guard outside the former President’s home. They also say they will protect Zuma against arrest. The Constitutional Court has given Zuma five days to hand himself over to authorities. It found him guilty of contempt of court after he failed to attend the State Capture Commission hearings – despite being ordered to do so by the apex court. MKMVA members have been camping outside Zuma’s home since April. MKMVA’s Carl Niehaus reacts to ConCourt’s Zuma ruling:  Pension at stake Constitutional Law expert, advocate Paul Hoffman says the former President could forfeit his pension if Parliament institutes proceedings against him following the Constitutional Court judgment. Hoffman says Zuma could face some serious questions in Parliament. “It is possible that the fitness for office of Mr Zuma will be questioned in Parliament later and he could forfeit his pension as a consequences of that type of proceeding but that proceeding has even started they may be other consequences further down the line,” he adds. Associate Professor of Public Law at the University of Cape Town, Cathleen Powell, says the ruling is unprecedented. She elaborates on her views in the video below: 