The Department of Health in Limpopo has raised concerns over cluster COVID-19 outbreaks after 13 learners from the same class tested positive at the Marobathota High School at Boyne outside Polokwane. The department says 18 learners exhibited high temperatures and other symptoms on Monday. MEC Phophi Ramathuba says a team of health workers have started with contact tracing. “Capricorn district, we have been doing well until we started to see this outbreak at the school. It’s a class of 36 learners, 18 of those through the screening process were taken for testing at our Evelyn Lekganyane Clinic on the 14th of June. 13 of those learners have tested positive, the results are back. Five of those have tested negative.” Spokesperson for Limpopo Education Department, Tidimalo Chuene says the school has been closed for disinfecting. Chuene has appealed to learners to adhere to safety protocols to prevent further infections. “There are schools that are caught up in cluster outbreaks which is quite worrying. The school has been closed for deep cleaning and will reopen on Monday the 21st of June. What we are happy about is that schools continue to follow our standard operating procedure on the management and prevention of COVID-19, just by how they respond when cases are picked up. It is very important that we heighten vigilance and strictly adhere to non-pharmaceutical while at and also out of school to curb further infections.” South Africa’s COVID-19 cases amid the third wave has broken the 13 000 mark. The Health Department says 13 246 cases were reported in the last reporting period, which represents a 21.7% positivity rate. According to the National Institute for Communicable Diseases, this is the highest number of daily cases and positivity rate since January. Health activist Dr Kgosi Letlape reacts to rising COVID-19 numbers:  The country now has 1 774 312 coronavirus cases since the outbreak of the pandemic in March 2020. Hundred and 36 new fatalities were reported overnight, taking the total national death toll to 58 223. Latest #COVID statistics in South Africa #CoronaVirusSA https://t.co/YtSBVk56gN — Department of Health (@HealthZA) June 16, 2021  The NICD is urging South Africans to remain vigilant and follow prevention measures as diligent as possible to help stop the spread. It is also calling on young South Africans to assist the elderly register for vaccinations. So far, 1 965 812 South Africans have received their COVID-19 shots. For those who are 60 years & older, please register on EVDS: https://t.co/GMQuO2cNAe to get the vaccine. Younger generations are also encouraged to help pensioners register. If you have registered and need further assistance, contact the #COVID19 hotline 0800 029 999 ^LS — NICD (@nicd_sa) June 16, 2021  