Eskom has implemented stage four load shedding until 10 tonight. Stage 2 will then continue until 10 pm for the rest of the week. The power utility says this is due to additional breakdowns at the Medupi Power Station and Duvha – coupled with the high winter demand. #PowerAlert2 Loadshedding will be increased to Stage 4 from 14:00 this afternoon until 22:00 tonight, after which it will revert to Stage 2 as previously communicated@News24 @SABCNews @NewzroomAfrika @eNCA @IOL @ewnupdates @SundayTimesZA @SowetanLIVE @dailysunsa pic.twitter.com/6Q9bpiZh01 — Eskom Hld SOC Ltd (@Eskom_SA) June 9, 2021  In the video below is Energy Expert Ted Blom  Eskom spokesperson, Sikonathi Mantshantsha, says capacity constraints will continue for the foreseeable future and he has urged the public to reduce their daily electricity usage. Earlier this week, Eskom warned that the likelihood of load shedding remained high for the rest of the week as the power system remains constrained and vulnerable. Eskom has again called on South Africans to reduce their electricity usage. In the video below Eskom’s spokesperson, Sikonathi Mantshantsha, discusses stage 2 load shedding  Understanding Eskom Load Shedding Stages Eskom says that load shedding will be used under emergency conditions for limited periods. According to the Power utility four schedules have been developed based on the possibility of risk and to ensure that load shedding is applied in a fair and equitable manner: Load shedding will be implemented in most instances in 2-hour blocks. Each of the time periods has an additional 30 minutes added to allow for switching of networks in a way that will not damage the power system. Eskom will begin load shedding customers at the start of the period (for example from 06:00) and will have all scheduled customers switched off within the first half-hour (that is, by 06:30) At the end of the period, after the two / four hours (that is, by 08:00 or 10:00 as applicable), Eskom will start returning power to customers and should have them all back within half an hour (that is, by 08:30 or 10:30). The frequency of load shedding increases as higher Stages are used Eskom says if more load needs to be shed than has been scheduled in Stages 1, 2, 3, and 4 then National Control will instruct additional, unscheduled load shedding. This means you may be shed outside of your scheduled times. The actual stage in use at the time will be displayed on the main Eskom website and on the home page of the Load Shedding Website, as well as on the MyEskom App. *Load Shedding stages can be found at Eskom’s website.