The case in which Ace Magashule is seeking to have his suspension from the African National Congress (ANC) set aside will continue on Friday at the High Court in Johannesburg. Judge Jody Kollapen appealed during the hearing to advocate Dali Mpofu, who is representing Magashule, not to prolong his arguments on the matter. Magashule was suspended earlier this year, after he failed to “step-aside” voluntarily in accordance with the 2017 ANC resolution. Judge Kollapen has appealed for more rapid progress in the argument on Friday. “We’ll adjourn until tomorrow (Friday) morning at 9 o’clock, we will allow you 45 minutes to wrap up your arguments for the applicants then Mr Tangle may start. As a matter of principle, we would want to give him the same amount of time, but he would indicate to us when he starts how much time he may need. We will leave sometime for arguments so that we may conclude the arguments by tomorrow,” said the judge. Earlier on Thursday, Judge Kollapen questioned the authenticity of Magashule’s decision to come to the court, seeking the reversal of his suspension from the ANC. He says, according to arguments from advocate Mpofu, there are internal structures within the ANC, including the Integrity Commission, that he could have taken the matter to. “Is your sense that ultimately in the context of this case, one must look at simply the rights of this individual and if rights been violated or vindicated rights, and the interest of a collective as reflected in its founding documents but also in it working regions – that relates to the engagement with the Integrity Commission etc., because there appear to be two processes running maybe on parallel tracks – do they ever converge,” Kollapen said. Magashule supporter weighs in on the case:   During arguments, Mpofu said the governing party’s decision to suspend Magashule, from his position and the party, was unconstitutional. He has told the High Court that Magashule has a constitutional right to associate with any political party in the country, including the ANC. The Johannesburg High Court Bench has on the other hand dismissed, with costs, the application of three individuals wanting to be part of Magashule’s case as intervening parties.