Cabinet says it acknowledges the frustration of South Africans with the continued power outages due to failures in the Eskom infrastructure power networks. Acting Minister in the Presidency Khumbudzo Ntshavheni made the remark in a media briefing on Thursday following a meeting of the country’s national executive. The country is currently at stage three load shedding with stage two expected to resume after 10pm and continue until Sunday. In the video below is Energy Expert Ted Blom reacts to load shedding:  Ntshavheni says Cabinet is confident in the measures that have been put in place to improve the situation. “Cabinet remains committed to the implementation of the integrated resource plan 2030 which is based on a diversified energy mix that will reduce reliance on a single or a few energy primary sources. The Department of Mineral Resources and Energy (DMRE) has also opened bid window 5 of the Independent Renewal Energy Producer Empowerment programme to procure 2 600 of wind and solar power to support the national grid,” she says. “The electricity regulation reforms have also enabled municipalities with the capacity to purchase their own power from alternative power producers. This will alleviate pressure from the Eskom power grid,” explains Ntshavheni. Minister Ntshavheni addresses a media briefing:  Cabinet on Mkhize Ntshaveni also responded to questions regarding the appointment of Tourism Minister Mmamoloko Kubayi-Ngubane to act in the position of Health Minister, Dr Zweli Mkhize. The matter as to why Deputy Health Minister, Dr Joe Phaahla, was not appointed was raised on various social media platforms this week. This, after Mkhize was placed on special leave  over allegations of irregularity around communications company, Digital Vibes. “Deputy Ministers in terms of the Constitution I think it is section 93 of the Constitution, they cannot act as ministers. I think when the Constitution celebrates 25 years of existence we should find more detail and start to understand what our Constitution provides for.” “So it is not a reflection on the capacity of the deputy ministers where acting ministers are appointed from the pool of members of the cabinet. It is just that they are not members of the cabinet,” adds Ntshavheni. ANC’s Integrity Commission set to meet with embattled Health Minister Dr Zweli Mkhize: 