President Cyril Ramaphosa has announced the launch of the National Pathway Management Network to assist in reducing the country’s high youth unemployment rate. The initiative brings together eight government departments that will support the youth in finding their way into the economy. Speaking virtually at government’s Youth Day event, Ramaphosa says the network will complement government’s efforts to create spaces where young people can access information, opportunities and support. “I want to make a call to young South Africans to register on SA YOUTH MOBI, you can create a profile of yourself, view opportunities for learning and earning and receive support through multiple channels. SA YOUTH MOBI has been zero-rated by all mobile networks so that it can be accessed by young people across the country at no cost, all you need is a mobile phone or a computer.”  Youth Day 2021 celebrations:  Earlier, KwaZulu-Natal Premier Sihle Zikalala condemned racial violence at schools. The Premier was one of the speakers at the Youth Day commemorations in Pietermaritzburg. Zikalala’s statements follow the violent clash between white and black parents this week at the Witbank Technical High School after a racist incident. “We note the disappointing incidents of racial intolerance that some of our schools 26 years into democracy. We want to affirm that ours is a truly non-racial society wherein schools in society and in all areas people must enjoy society including access to quality education wherever they want.” Premier Zikalala speaks to SABC reporter Simphiwe Makhanya:  Zikalala also condemned the attacks against the LGBTQI community following the stabbing, rape and killing of 21-year-old Anele Bengu of KwaMakhuta, south of Durban. Reflection 45 years on According to Sport, Arts and Culture, Minister Nathi Mthethwa the country reflects today on whether there has been any progress since the youth took a stand against the apartheid system 45 years ago. Minister Mthethwa speaks to SABC reporter Simphiwe Makhanya:  “It is through them that we meet 45 years later and reflect on the road which we have traversed since 1994 and asking ourselves questions whether what they fought for whether the stand they took has borne any fruits.” NYDA laments funding crisis at higher education institutions National Youth Development Agency CEO Waseem Carrim has lamented the funding crisis young people face at the country’s higher education institutions. He was also speaking at government’s hybrid Youth Day event. He says students’ recurring protests at the beginning of each year must come to an end. Carrim speaks to SABC reporter Simphiwe Makhanya:  “It is important to say that young people work hard they struggle through school and they obtain their bachelor’s passes only to arrive at the gates of higher learning institutions only to be told that there is no money. Young people gathered under the banner of asinamali, our only crime is to be poor in this country. We must urgently fast-track the commission on higher education and the task team so that we end the crisis of funding for students so that come 2022 every young person who is academically qualified my have a place at an institution of higher learning.” Drugs and substance abuse among youth Among young people who attended the National Youth Day commemoration in Pietermaritzburg, many say there is hope for the future. However, there are also fears as more young people are falling victims to drugs and substance abuse. Prineesa Govender and Mampho Moshoeshoe say their greatest concern is gender-based violence. “One of the struggles we face is trying to raise ourselves because people don’t want to listen to and they think whatever we say will always be wrong. Or it doesn’t mean anything, so we would like to empower our voices, and we would like people to listen to what we say. Because we are the future and we think we will make this country better. My fears about being a young person is the fact that young people these days don’t take life seriously. They just live for the moment. It hurts to see young people wasting their lives drinking.”