Please note this story contains graphic details, which might upset some readers, including children. A 30-year-old Limpopo mother has been arrested for the alleged murder of her newborn baby girl. She allegedly smashed her against a wall at a public toilet in a mall in Malamulele. It is alleged that the mother delivered the baby alone in the toilet and then killed her. The incident has shocked people in and around Malamulele. It is alleged that the incident happened on Monday morning. The 30-year-old suspect and her mother had visited a mobile clinic near the mall. While waiting in the queue, the woman apparently informed her mother that she needed to use the toilet. She allegedly delivered a baby girl inside the toilet and then allegedly smashed the newborn against the wall. Mall staff made the gruesome discovery after hearing a disturbing noise. The staff then called the emergency services personnel. It is further alleged that the woman had denied several times that she was pregnant. Limpopo Health Spokesperson, Neil Shikwambana, says mental evaluations are being conducted on her. “The Health MEC, Dr Phophi Ramathuba has expressed sadness and also outrage at this incident and she has called on community members to remember that there are other legal options that they can follow instead of killing or throwing away their children. They can enquire about the termination of pregnancy at all our facilities they will be referred accordingly or give the baby away for adoption. So the MEC has also called upon men to support their partners during pregnancy,” adds Shikwambana. The woman, who is under police guard at a hospital, will face a charge of murder when she appears before the Malamulele Magistrate’s Court. Police Spokesperson, Brigadier Motlafela Mojapelo, has confirmed her arrest. “The police in Malamulele have arrested a 30-year-old woman for allegedly killing her newborn baby in one of the bathrooms at Masingita Mall on Monday morning. The provincial commissioner lt general, Thembi Radebe, has strongly condemned this incident and said noting can justify what the woman being said to have done. The woman will appear at the Malamulele Magistrate’s Court on Wednesday on a charge of murder.” Meanwhile, another Limpopo mother, 42-year-old Mutavhatsindi Ndishavhani, has appeared before the Tshaulu Periodical Court on a murder charge. She allegedly assaulted her 11-month-old baby boy to death at Ha-Lambani Village, outside Thohoyandou, last month.