The Automobile Association (AA) has called on the government to provide more clarity on the planned roll-out of the Administrative Adjudication of Road Traffic Offences (AARTO) Act. The system is expected to be phased in from Thursday, however, the AA’s spokesperson Layton Beard says motorists remain unsure on how the system will affect them. Beard says, “Look, apart from the concerns that we have in the actual amendments which relate specifically to schedule 3, and the offences and the demerits accrued. We don’t believe that they adhere towards promoting road safety.” “We are of the opinion that they are more geared towards revenue collection but just in terms of the actual rollout of AARTO. You know it has been stated that the rollout will be on the first of July. We have had very little communication from the Department of Transport or the Road Traffic Infringement Agency which is the agency to administer AARTO. So there is a lot of confusion,” says Beard. Automobile Association’s Layton Beard on demerit system  The Department of Transport says that the rollout of the Adjudication of Road Traffic Offences (AARTO) Act is on target – however, there is less clarity around when the country’s new driving demerit system will be introduced. The AARTO and combined demerit system will penalise drivers and fleet operators who are guilty of traffic offences or infringements by imposing demerit points that could lead to the suspension or cancellation of licences, professional driving permits, or operator cards. It will also encourage the payment of fines and reduce the burden on South African courts, by removing the initial option to elect to appear in court. The number of points incurred will be dependent on the nature of the traffic offence or charge. Currently, there are over 2 500 separate charges. New demerit points system to effect on 1st July:  [READ] With 1 July now just a day away, details of the planned roll-out of #AARTO are still lacking and it is becoming increasingly urgent for government, and the RTIA, to inform the public of exactly what the process will be. @LaytonBeard @Philip_Purnell https://t.co/iDmlQXjPeO — AA South Africa (@AASouthAfrica) June 29, 2021  [READ] The planned roll-out of #AARTO is scheduled for national implementation on 1 July 2021, but too many questions about the implementation remain unanswered and we need clarity. https://t.co/NeWNWGajp4 — AA South Africa (@AASouthAfrica) June 17, 2021 