Investigations are under way to determine the motive behind a mass shooting in Gugulethu on the Cape Flats, in which eight people were killed.  Five people died on the scene, while three others died later in hospital. Initially the police had reported that seven people had died. Police Minister, Bheki Cele, visited the scene Thursday, no arrests have been made. It’s alleged the occupants of two vehicles opened fire on those gathered outside a house where a traditional ceremony was being held on Wednesday night.  One of those attending the ceremony was Kaya Lolonga. Lolonga says: “We are just traumatised because we don’t know what was the motive and what happened because there is no enemy of those killed. We don’t know those killers, when we heard the gun shots we hid ourselves because we were inside and we locked the door.” #PoliceMinistry #MediaAlert: Police Minister, General Bheki Cele will today, receive a briefing from the Provincial #SAPS management of the Western Cape, following the killing of 8 people in Gugulethu. MEhttps://t.co/2QTTQbHJwc pic.twitter.com/RnhedUeAHs — SA Police Service  (@SAPoliceService) June 24, 2021  #PoliceMinistry Police Minister General Bheki Cele & WC #SAPS management led by Acting #sapsWC Acting PC, Maj Gen Patekile visited the #gugulethushooting scene, where 5 men were gunned down & 3 more died in hospital. Minister Cele met with the family of some of the victims ME pic.twitter.com/k2x5MqLKZ6 — SA Police Service  (@SAPoliceService) June 24, 2021  It’s not yet clear whether the incident is linked to the spate of extortion and revenge attacks which have plagued Cape Town communities in recent months. But police are not ruling out any possibility at this stage. Minister Cele says one of those killed in the attack, had a criminal record relating to murder and attempted murder. “We have a little bit of leads, maybe it’s enough to say so at the present moment and we have looked at the people who were here. I must say that one person that was here without saying the name of he’s record. His profile is not very good, but we are not saying that could be the reason.” The Gugulethu Development Forum has condemned the attack and called on the community to reclaim the streets from criminals. Police have launched a manhunt, and instituted a 72-hour activation plan to track down the perpetrators.