The man accused of the brutal murder of Anele Bhengu in the south of Durban earlier this month, is expected to make a formal bail application in the Umbumbulu Magistrate’s Court on Wednesday. Thulani Cele is facing charges of murder and assault with intent to cause grievous bodily harm. Cele was arrested on the KwaZulu-Natal south coast a few days after the murder and made his first court appearance last week. Bhengu’s body was found close to the home of a friend she was visiting in KwaMakhutha, with her throat slit and multiple stab wounds. The LGBTQIA+ community in Durban, which believes the attack was a hate crime, has condemned the murder. Man accused of killing Anele Bhengu appears in court  Bhengu was openly lesbian and her murder has yet again raised the issue of violence against LGBTQI+ people in the province. In April, Sphamandla Khoza was stabbed to death near his Ntuzuma home. Last year, well-known LGBTQI+ activist Lindokuhle Cele was stabbed to death at a butchery in Umlazi. PIC CREDIT: Supplied: #sabcnews #sabckzn The man accused of killing openly Lesbian woman Anele Bhengu is expected to appear before the Mbumbulu magistrate court south of Durban. Bhengu’s body was found by a passersby with multiple stab wounds in KwaMakhutha. pic.twitter.com/Q0o0lPljJ5 — Nonkululeko Hlophe (@Leko3) June 21, 2021  Pic: Supplied. #sabcnews #sabckzn Family of the openly Lesbian woman, Anele Bhengu who was brutally killed in KwaMakhutha south of Durban is demanding justice. Bhengu’s body was found in a bush meters away from the home of the friend she was visiting. Community is angry. pic.twitter.com/YcYh27LeU4 — Nonkululeko Hlophe (@Leko3) June 15, 2021  #sapsKZN #SAPS Port Shepstone Tactical Response Team, Margate Detectives and the law enforcement agency arrested a suspect (39) at Mlahlandlini area at Gcilima in the South Coast for the murder of Anele Bhengu on 13 June 2021 in KwaMakhutha. NPhttps://t.co/8GRlGps50I pic.twitter.com/KT9oRJbrek — SA Police Service  (@SAPoliceService) June 17, 2021  Happy Youth Day Today I want to speak about the incredible work the LGBTI+ Youth in South Africa are doing, how you can help them and some incredible opportunities available for LGBTI+ youth rn. This will also be my #QueerLivesMatter update for this week  pic.twitter.com/C7UXZKx6WM — Tutu Zondo (@tutuzondo) June 16, 2021 