A 41-year-old Northern Cape father has been sentenced to life in prison in the Olifantshoek Regional circuit court after he was found guilty of raping his 7-year-old daughter. The court found that the accused raped his daughter in her room at his home in Diepkloof in Olifantshoek in 2016. Police spokesperson, Colonel Mashay Gameldien, says it was reported that the father shoved the daughter’s pyjama pants into her mouth to prevent her from screaming then proceeded to rape her. “It was reported that the father undressed his daughter while she was sleeping, shoved her pyjama pants in her mouth to prevent her from screaming and then he raped her. After the ordeal, he threatened her that should she tell anyone, he would stop giving her money for lunch. The victim informed her mother, who immediately reported the incident to the police. The accused was arrested on the same day but he was released on bail in 2019. The accused was declared unfit to possess a firearm and his name was recorded in the national sexual offences register.” Police looking for suspects in rape and murder of elderly victims The Eastern Cape police are looking for two men who raped two elderly women in Tsomo and killed one of the victims. The two women, aged 91 and 75, were sleeping in the same dwelling when the two suspects entered the house. The 75-year-old victim managed to escape after the rape, but the 91-year-old woman was killed. Police spokesperson Thembinkosi Kinana is calling on the community to come forward with information. “Police were called to the scene of the crime and on arrival, they found the 91-year-old outside the house already deceased. Two cases of rape and one of murder have been registered. The circumstances surrounding the instance is currently under investigation. No arrest is made at this stage. We, therefore, call upon anyone who may have information that may lead to the arrests of those responsible in this gruesome murder and rapes.” Mbilwi Secondary teacher accused of rape back in court Meanwhile, judgment in the bail application of a former teacher of the Mbilwi Secondary school in Limpopo who allegedly raped a learner three years ago, is expected in the Thohoyandou Magistrate’s court. Solomon Makhuvha is accused of raping the learner on three occasions when he volunteered to assist her with extra lessons. The 50-year-old was arrested in May after the Human Rights Commission assisted the former learner to open a case. The girl, who was aged 17 at the time, was allegedly lured to a lodge for extra lessons. Makhuvha threatened the girl not to tell anyone about her ordeal, and he also offered her money. Makhuvha has since resigned. The state is opposing bail. – Additional reporting by Nkululeko Nyembezi and Katlego Nyoni.