The Cape Chamber of Commerce and Industry (CCCI) says the new adjusted level four restrictions will have a devastating impact on restaurants and liquor outlets. Chamber President, Jacques Moolman, says they understand some of the restrictions are necessary to curb the spread of COVID-19. He says, however, others do not make sense. “The impact on restaurants and liquor sales will be as severe as ever and for many in these trades, it will be a death blow. Restricting funerals to 50 people when sit-down dinners in restaurants are prohibited makes little sense.  As for the 9 PM curfew, without thorough policing, it’s a case of hope triumphing over experience and is likely to have little effect.” Meanwhile, Wines of South Africa says there is no evidence to suggest that alcohol consumption is the driver of the current rise in COVID-19 infection rates in the country. WOSA spokesperson, Maryna Calow, says government should be concentrating on generating greater efficiency in the country’s vaccine roll-out, to allow for the economy to open up. She says the decision to ban alcohol will place jobs at risk at a time when government does not have the fiscal resources to provide support for those who will find themselves unemployed. “A ban on the sale of alcohol is not only devastating to the entire alcohol value chain but will also fuel the growth in the illegal trade of alcohol, which has been proven to increase exponentially when a total ban is imposed.  In 2020 alone, SARS lost R11.3 billion due to the illicit alcohol trade.” In his address to the nation, President Cyril Ramaphosa says government’s focus is on limiting social contact to flatten the curve and contain the further spread of the COVID-19 virus. “We are still standing, because we are a resilient people that has overcome the worst many times in our history. Now a third wave is gathering in strength and force. Once again, we find ourselves at a defining moment in our fight against this disease,” he says. Under adjusted lockdown alert level 4, restaurants and other eateries may only serve food for takeaway or delivery. Outside of work, South Africans are urged to only meet with members of their households. #SouthAfrica is on adjusted #alertlevel4. Summary of #PresidentCyrilRamaphosa announcement on sale of #alcohol, Inter-provincialtravel, closure of #schools and #working from #home #sabcnews #sabckzn pic.twitter.com/poBE4GpiVJ — Newsbreak (@Newsbreak_Lotus) June 27, 2021  Restaurants allowed to sell food for delivery and take away only 