Deputy State Security Minister and former ANC Spokesperson Zizi Kodwa has denied before the Commission of Inquiry into State Capture that he was involved in corrupt activities with former EOH executive, Jehan Mackay. Steven Powell, head of law firm ENS’s forensics division, earlier told the commission that between 2015 and 2016, Mackay paid monies amounting to thousands of rands to Kodwa for political gains.  Mr. Kodwa says says he also confirms that this was a loan from a friend and had no strings attached, he says he obtained it at the time of financial difficulty and would would not have been able to secure a bank loan. #StateCaptureInquiry — State Capture Commission (@StateCaptureCom) June 28, 2021  Kodwa has admitted to receiving financial assistance from friends but not for access to political leaders. “I’m particularly remorseful that although the issues raised with me relate to the period when I was not working for the state and had no influence on how the state did its business that I accepted assistance from friends. [This] could land itself to being [interpreted as] using our proximity to power to influence our individual financial difficulties, rather than those of our people,” says Kodwa. Below is the live stream for today’s proceedings:  Kodwa has also told the commission that he is friends with Mackay. He has confirmed that payments were made into his account on requests at times when he hit financial difficulties they have been friends since 2013. Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo has heard that Kodwa obtained a loan of R100 000 from Mackay and an amount of R890 000 of which went into the purchase of a Jeep vehicle in June 2015. Kodwa says the terms and conditions of the repayment of the loans are between himself and Mackay. He has assured the commission that none of the payments had anything to do with government procurement by Mackay. “What I can confirm is that none of the payments had anything to do with the government procurement by Mackay or any of his companies. I submit that such payments were made on request at times when I encountered financial difficulties. I can also confirm that such payments were not for any assistance then or even in future. I often turned to friends like Mackay whenever I faced financial difficulties,” adds Kodwa.  Mr. Kodwa says he confirms that he obtained a loan in the sum of 1000000.00 from Mackay, he says R89000.00 of which went into the purchase of the Jeep vehicle as identified in the questions during June 2015. #StateCaptureInquiry — State Capture Commission (@StateCaptureCom) June 28, 2021 