Forum 4 Service Delivery has called on the government to continue with the Local Government Elections (LGE) as planned. The party says, the IEC should change the process of voting to be electronic. President of the party Mbhare Kekana said during Tsamaya Lerona Campaign launched held in Mahikeng on Wednesday. The aim of the campaign is to mobilise new members from other political parties. Scores of members of Forum 4 Service Delivery sang liberation songs at Montshiwa Cultural Village to welcome new members. Some members were dressed in their party regalia, while new members were dressed in their former political parties. According to the Forum 4 Service Delivery, the party has recruited more than a hundred and thirty members, from other parties. According to the party president, Mbhare Kekana, this event forms part of their campaign ahead of the upcoming Local Government Elections, later this year. “We are using this as a launch because the 2021 campaign is called Tsamaya Lerona Campaign so from here we are going to other provinces and we are looking forward. This is the step of our target of reaching 100 councillors in this province. Other pointers will assist to be in charge after the elections in five municipalities.” On the other hand, members who defected from their parties to the Forum 4 Service Delivery, say, their former parties do not serve the interest of the people. “For a mere fact that Forum 4 Service Delivery is grounded, is operating right where the people are, it confronts issues as they come and am going to make sure am part of that particular achievement.” “When we saw the people in the struggle for service delivery, F4SD is the only organisation that can represent the people, to reclaim their power back. That is what made me join F4SD and leave the DA.” Currently, Forum 4 Service Delivery has twenty-eight councillors in all the municipalities across the province. The party says, the suggestions that the upcoming LGE be postponed, will not be in the party’s favour. “We have been warning the IEC many times that change your electoral system move it to online, so they must see to it that these elections do happen for accountability and also to make sure that people got a clear mandate. In terms of the constitutional mandate of the council is five years, so we need to make sure that we cannot work beyond that and it is too late,” says Kekana. The party says it will criss-cross the country to garner support, ahead of the elections.