Political analyst Sanusha Naidu says the African National Congress (ANC) and former President Jacob Zuma are attempting to deflect from the true reason of his refusal to defy a Constitutional Court order to appear before the Commission of Inquiry into State Capture. On Monday the ANC’s Top-Six met with the former president over the matter. A deadline for Zuma to file his response to the commission’s court action against him, lapsed with no confirmation of whether he would participate in the court proceedings. Following the virtual meeting, the ANC Top-Six said there has been no intention by Zuma to undermine the Constitution of the country and he is afforded the same rights as any citizen under the Bill of Rights. However, Naidu says Zuma is in fact aggrieved that he is being treated like an ordinary citizen. Naidu says, “He has these rights he has been exercising these rights so what more is it about the Bill of Rights that he has to continue to deliberate with his lawyers about. Again it’s a strategy to deflect a dummy strategy. The former president Zuma feels very afflicted about the fact that he is being treated as if he is some kind of individual or just a normal joe blog on the street but rather he should be afforded a kind of level of respect and he’s not getting it in terms of what’s happening.” Zuma, ANC Top-Six meeting an exercise in deflection:  The party’s leadership has agreed to afford Zuma time and space to deal with the Constitutional Court and the Commission. Briefing the media at Luthuli House in Johannesburg on the outcomes of that virtual meeting,  ANC Secretary-General Ace Magashule says, “It was indeed a very good meeting, very constructive, positive, energising and giving hope to both the country and the African National Congress’ leadership and membership,” says Magashule. Magashule says they discussed with the former President, issues such as the Constitution, the Bill of Rights and have all agreed on the importance of the Constitution to the country. According to Magashule, the former President made an extensive presentation on what prompted his decision to refuse to appear at the Zondo Commission. “We all agreed that there has not been any intention to undermine the Constitution of South Africa. Comrade told the Top- Six that he believes he has been subjected to unfair persecutions over two decades and he emphasised that as a law-abiding citizen, he respects the Constitution and that he, too, is entitled to the basic rights as enshrined in the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa under the Bill of Rights,” says Magashule. Magashule says the ANC leaders agreed “to give him space to continue consulting with his lawyers on these issues, which he has raised. Whether to appear before the Judicial Commission of Inquiry, we have left that matter because he will further consult with his lawyers.” The Secretary-General adds that the ANC and Zuma will continue to engage on other issues within the party. ANC officials meet with former President Jacob Zuma : 