Southern Cape police are investigating a case of culpable homicide following the death of two men in a horrific crash on the N2 near Plettenberg Bay. Police spokesperson, Malcolm Pojie, says a bakkie with two occupants was travelling from the direction of Kwanokuthula towards Plettenberg Bay. “It overtook several vehicles at high speed. The driver lost control and collided head-on with another vehicle with four occupants, one of whom died on impact,” he says. Pojie adds that the other vehicle caught fire, but a passing motorist managed to save the passengers, who were taken to hospital for treatment. In Carltonville, Gauteng, two men sustained fatal injuries while another sustained moderate injuries following a single-vehicle rollover on the R501 in the early hours of this morning. When ER24 paramedics arrived at the scene shortly before 01h00, they found the driver of the vehicle entrapped and showing no signs of life. Two men were found lying a few metres from the vehicle. One of them had passed on while the other sustained moderate injuries. [CARLETONVILLE] Two killed, one injured in a single-vehicle rollover.https://t.co/sSbS6Qi02Z — ER24 EMS (Pty) Ltd. (@ER24EMS) March 14, 2021  Meanwhile, in KwaZulu-Natal four people have been killed in two separate crashes. In Hillcrest, west of Durban, two people lost their lives in a crash involving a taxi. Seven other passengers suffered moderate injuries and were treated on the scene by paramedics. KwaZulu-Natal emergency medical services spokesperson, Robert McKenzie, explains: “Earlier this afternoon there was a crash involving a minibus in Molweni. Sadly two people have sustained fatal injuries in this crash and paramedics from KZN EMS further with their colleagues from several private ambulance services treated seven patients at the scene. This included three children who had sustained serious injuries. The exact cause of the crash is not known at this stage and is being investigated by police.” Two people have also died following an accident on the R66 at Ulundi in northern KwaZulu-Natal. Two others were seriously injured in the head-on collision. Provincial Road Traffic Inspectorate spokesperson, Zinhle Mali, says two counts of culpable homicide are being investigated . “Two people died and two others sustained serious injuries following a head-on Collison between two light motor vehicles on the R66 Nongoma Ulundi road. The cause of the accident is unknown at this stage. Two counts of culpable homicide is being investigated. Injured have been taken to Nkonjeni hospital.” Additional reporting SABC 