Tanzania has entered a 14-day period of mourning after President John Magufuli passed on. The 61-year-old statesman succumbed to heart failure at a hospital in Dar es Salaam. Magufuli held a denialist stance when it came to the COVID-19 pandemic, refusing to place the country under lockdown and not enforcing regulations like mask-wearing or social distancing. He was only six months into his second term. Tanzania’s Vice-President, Samia Suluhu Hassan announced the passing of President Magufuli late on Wednesday night. “Dear Tanzanians, it is sad to announce that today, 17 March 2021, around 6pm we lost our brave leader, President John Magufuli who died from heart disease at Mzena Hospital in Dar es Salaam where he was getting treatment. President Magufuli was admitted to hospital on the 6th of March this year, at the cardiac department of the Jakaya Kikwete heart disease hospital. He was receiving treatment for chronic atrial fibrillation which he has had for about ten years now. He was discharged on the 7th of March this year. On the 14th of March he became sick and he was admitted again until he met his death. Plans for his burial are under way. Our nation will now go into mourning for 14 days and flags will be flown at half-mast. God has given, God has taken,” said Hassan. Magufuli’s stance on coronavirus Last month,  opposition leaders in the country claimed Magufuli had contracted COVID-19, an allegation that was denied by the Tanzanian government last week. Magufuli was last seen in public on 27 February. The president had refused to adhere to COVID-19 regulations for most of 2020 saying the country can be saved through prayer. “That is why I prayed and I thank all religious leaders. We said no. We said there is no locking ourselves up because that would be a greater disease than corona. When you lock people up will you feed them? What will they do? I do not want to explain the problems other countries are going through. We have decided to walk with God. We have decided to put God first, and in the real sense, God has heard your prayers.” Magufuli refused to place his country in lockdown. “I have already explained and experts have also explained. It is true I did not order for a lockdown, to lock people up in homes. That would have been slavery of the highest order … imagine being locked up and you cannot see your wife and children. We wake in the morning to go to the farms, or the market or fishing where would we be all of the 60 million of us Tanzanians, and then at night you cannot move as if corona moves at night only.” But in February, Magufuli made a turnaround where he adhered to calls by the World Health Organisation (WHO) for his administration to take the pandemic more seriously. He called for the use of masks, sanitise and encouraged social distancing. His political career Magufuli was set to become president after receiving the ruling party Chama cha Mapinduzi’s nomination in July 2015. His predecessor, former President Jakaya Kikwete endorsed him as a corruption fighter. “He is hardworking, no-nonsense; has zero-tolerance to corruption, and likes to get things done. I am assured the delegates made the right choice for the party and Tanzania.” Magufuli was then the Public Works Minister credited with improving infrastructure and development. He made promises to improve the country’s situation. “Thank you for agreeing to nominate me and appoint me as your servant. I promise I will not let you down.” In November of 2015, he was inaugurated as president. He won his second term in a landslide victory last year. Global leaders including President Cyril Ramaphosa, WHO Director-General, Tedros Ghebreyesus, and African Union Commission Chair, Moussa Faki Mahamat have expressed sorrow and sent condolences to Magufuli’s family and the people of Tanzania. WHO Director-General, Tedros Ghebreyesus’ message of condolence: 