Pressure continues to build on New York Governor Andrew Cuomo after a third woman alleged he made unwanted sexual advances towards her. The Democrat Governor, who shot to international fame during his daily briefings at the height of the coronavirus spread in his state in early 2020, faces calls for him to resign following earlier allegations made by two former aides about sexual harassment in the workplace. In a statement issued on Sunday, the beleaguered governor of the country’s fourth most populous state apologised saying things he might have said may have been misinterpreted as unwanted flirtation – as the State’s Attorney General proceeds with an investigation into the allegations. SABC News US correspondent Sherwin Bryce-Pease has the latest on the allegations:  They called him America’s Governor. After his daily COVID-19 press briefings won him international acclaim, at the height of Washington’s muddled messaging on mitigation efforts. But a third bombshell report in the New York Times Monday shares the account of a woman Anna Ruch who met Cuomo at a wedding in 2019 when he put his hand on her lower back and then her cheeks asking if he could kiss her. When she removed his hands, he allegedly called her “aggressive’. The incident was witnessed by a friend. This after two women had already stepped forward – first Lindsey Boylan, a former special advisor to Cuomo wrote she had been subjected to pervasive harassment including being asked to play strip poker and receiving an unwanted kiss on the mouth – a claim Cuomo denied in December. “I heard about the tweet and what it said about comments that I had made and it’s not true – look I fought for and I believe a woman has the right to come forward and express her opinion and express issues and concerns that she has but it’s just not true.” Former aide Charlotte Bennett, who is almost 40 years his junior, claims Cuomo made inappropriate remarks about her sex life including asking her whether she ever had sex with older men. Executive Director of UN WOMEN Phumzile Mlambo-Ngcuka weighs in, “Obviously saddened by these allegations, I mean we are not taking away from the governor’s performance on issues that have to do with the fight against the pandemic but these allegations are serious and you have more than one woman making the allegations and really, it is usually the person who is in authority who had the capacity to harass those that are his juniors. It is never the other way around so the pattern we are seeing is the pattern we have seen all over again.” Mlambo-Ngcuka called for a thorough investigation with clear recommendations on a course of action as New York’s Attorney General Letitia James confirmed her office was proceeding with a rigorous probe into Cuomo’s conduct, promising a public report on their findings. “No place is safe, where there are power relations, these power relations tend to extend to men thinking that women’s bodies are a free for all. This is a cultural pattern that is so entrenched. We can never think that we have evolved, we have men who are already exposed to the value system that we are trying to entrench, who will behave in the right way. We have to be alert all the time and we should believe women. What we have learned in this short time of intensity is that women will not go out of their way to make these allegations because there is a price for them to pay as well,” says James. Top Democrat Speaker Nancy Pelosi has called the claims credible as the chorus grows for Cuomo to step down. But that seems unlikely in the short term after Cuomo issued this statement on Sunday saying, “I now understand that my interactions may have been insensitive or too personal and that some of my comments, given my position, made others feel in ways I never intended. I acknowledge some of the things I have said have been misinterpreted as an unwanted flirtation. To the extent anyone felt that way, I am truly sorry about that”. He also denied ever inappropriately touching anyone, a direct contradiction to the latest allegations against him. 