Eskom says it will suspend load shedding between 10am this morning and 2pm this afternoon in order to allow the nation to mourn the passing of King Goodwill Zwelithini. In a statement, the power utility says this extraordinary measure has been implemented to allow the nation to witness a key and significant historical event at this difficult time in the life of the Zulu nation. Afterward, load shedding will then be implemented and continue as previously communicated. Stage Two load shedding is expected to continue until Saturday morning. Eskom on Wednesday night announced that due to a further loss of generation capacity, load shedding had been increased from Stage One to Stage Two and extended until Saturday. Economists say South Africa cannot start a proper economic revival until the country’s power shortages are addressed. Spokesperson Sikonathi Mantshantsha says an increase in demand also resulted in the dwindling of the emergency reserves. #POWERALERT2 Eskom will suspend loadshedding between 10:00 and 14:00 in order to allow the nation to mourn the passing of His Majesty King Goodwill Zwelithini pic.twitter.com/pr3TS2x0qi — Eskom Hld SOC Ltd (@Eskom_SA) March 17, 2021  King Goodwill Zwelithini memorial service President Cyril Ramaphosa will deliver the eulogy at the memorial service for the amaZulu King Goodwill Zwelithini at around 10 am on Thursday. The service will be carried live on SABC platforms including TV, radio and online. People are urged to watch the ceremony using these media and not to visit Nongoma because of the coronavirus pandemic. The King of the Zulu nation was laid to rest at the KwaDlamahlahla palace in Nongoma in northern KwaZulu-Natal, in a ceremony called ukutshalwa in the early hours of Thursday morning. The longest-serving Zulu monarch died from COVID-19 complications last week. He has been hailed for reviving Zulu culture, strong traditional leadership, and leading the call for many social challenges like the fight against HIV/Aids. 