The Independent Police Investigative Directorate (IPID) has arrested four police officers from the Public Order Policing Unit in connection with the death of Mthokozisi Ntumba. The 35-year-old was killed allegedly by the police on Wednesday during a protest by Wits University students in Braamfontein. Ntumba had just visited a local clinic when police allegedly shot him dead. He died on the scene from bullet wounds. The four officers will appear at the Johannesburg Magistrate’s Court on Wednesday facing charges of murder, attempted murder and defeating the end of justice. IPID statement below:  Ntumba’s family shocked and devastated by his killing  Cele visits the home of Mthokozisi Ntumba Police Minister Bheki Cele spoke to the media after visiting Ntumba’s family home in Kempton Park east of Johannesburg last week. “He’s a young man. I saw his photo. He was working for the Department of Human Settlements and has just gained his Master’s degree. He’s a father of three, he’s got a young wife. I think his youngest son is just a year old. It’s a sad issue.” “It’s a sad situation to look at. It’s something that you can’t really even be able to live with as a human being now, taking all other elements of life out,” says Cele. Police Minister Bheki Cele says there is no explanation for the killing of Mthokozisi Ntumba:  Wits sends condolences to the family of Ntumba Meanwhile, Wits vice-chancellor Zeblon Vilakazi sent his condolences to Ntumba’s family. In a virtual address last week, Vilakazi described the incident as unfortunate. “I was obviously disheartened at the level of escalation that played itself out in the Braamfontein CBD with the sad loss of a bystander who lost his life yesterday [Wednesday] in that situation. My condolences go to the bereaved and I look forward to having a discussion with the Student Representative Council (SRC) on how we can arrive at a solution and de-escalate the problem,” adds Vilakazi. Wits briefing on the Higher Education funding crisis and related matters:    