Mdundo, a Kenya-based audio streaming platform, has attracted 90 000 musicians and millions of users. But it could also face competition as international firms like Spotify and Apple Music start focusing on the continent. For many artists, making music is one thing – making money another. But one Africa-focused streaming platform could provide the answer. “This is Nviiri The Storyteller, AKA Mr. Party, AKA King Solomon the second, AKA Why don’t you have a chaser, that’s a new one. Welcome to Sol Generation.” At a recording studio in Nairobi, Kenyan musician Nviiri can check how his music is doing on Mdundo. The site is free to users and makes money through advertising. Musicians are paid every time their song is streamed or downloaded, and Mdundo shares 50% of the cash from adverts with the artists. Nviiri is one of 90 000 African artists to have signed up. “In such tough times we can only depend on streaming because we don’t have events at the moment and if they are there, they are very little so, they are not very sustainable.” Mdundo was co-founded by Danish national Martin Nielsen and last year listed on the Danish stock market. “Africa is where the big opportunity is right now.” But he could be facing competition. Africa is attracting international audio streaming firms like Spotify and Apple Music. They’re keen to capitalize on increasing internet users and rising demand for legal content, but Nielsen says he’s not losing any sleep. “So, we see that as a big validation of our model, a validation that we are in, and we are super excited because we think that with many services pushing people from illegal to legal tiers, the market across Africa will be much bigger than it has ever been before.” Nielsen says Mdundo’s users jumped 40% to seven million in the six months to December. The company aims to reach 18 million users by June 2022. To do that it’s using a platform that does not require high data consumption or storage space. “It has helped me reach out to some of these guys who don’t have good internet services, even the new phones.” For Nviiri that takes the struggle out of reaching his audience, leaving him to focus on what he does best.