The Johannesburg Metro Police Department (JMPD) says they have deployed extra officers to hotspot areas in Braamfontein and Auckland Park, where students are expected to protest on Wednesday. Since last week, hundreds of students took to the streets to protest, calling for free higher education. They also want students to be allowed to register even if they have historical debt. One student was shot and wounded, allegedly by police. JMPD spokesperson Xolani Fihla says, “Officers remain on high alert following continuous protest action by students in Braamfontein and Auckland Park. Motorists must exercise caution on routes likes Kingsway Avenue, Empire Road, Jan Smuts Avenue, Solomon and Annet Road, Jorrison street, Bertha and De Korte street. Officers are present to monitor, divert traffic and to ensure the safety of all [people].” NSFAS funding systems for the 2021 academic year:  Nzimande meets Vice-Chancellors Meanwhile, Minister of Higher Education, Blade Nzimande has met with Vice-Chancellors from universities across the country to map a way forward as student protests continue. But the ministry is yet to give feedback to the media following the meeting. Despite threats of a nationwide shutdown of tertiary institutions across the country, the academic curriculum is continuing online at many universities and colleges.  The video below looks at how police deal with student protests:  Students urged to vacate campus: The North West University (NWU) has reiterated that all students are required to vacate its Mahikeng residences by 2pm on Wednesday. The campus has closed amid nationwide protests. The university says it is owed over R190 million in outstanding debt by over 11 730 students. NWU spokesperson, Christopher Motabogi says the number of students required to vacate the residences is not high. “The university has indicated to students that we will make R250 million available from its reserves to pay for NSFAS allowances. It’s unfortunate that as a university and due to the flouting of COVID-19 regulations, we have had to take the decision to close the campus.” “Not many students are on campus because those who are on campus are those who have to do practicals and physically be on campus. But we are hopeful that the student leadership will refrain from blockading roads,” explains Motabogi. The video below is reporting on Tuesday situation in North West, Free State and Gauteng: 