Motorists travelling to and from the Western Cape have been sternly warning by traffic authorities to adhere to the rules of the road at all times. Launching its Easter season traffic safety plan, the provincial department of transport says habitual offenders will be taken to task during this Easter weekend. Technology will be used to especially engage with offenders who repeatedly flout the law. With this device, all offences are now captured and displayed at the touch of a button. MEC of Transport, Bonginkosi Madikizela says in addition to high officer visibility, a hand-held improved technological device will load details of previous infringements to assist the traffic officers to enforce compliance with traffic “We’ve managed to collect the data of these habitual offenders. We’ve loaded into our handheld device that is used by the traffic officers, and we will be engaging those people because through our average speed over distance cameras we will be able to spot and stop those people and engage them. Our intention is really to make those people improve their behavior on our roads.” The provincial traffic department is urging all road users to keep to road safety guidelines. Acting Director of provincial traffic services, Vigie Chetty says, “We will harshly apply the law and it’s the rule of law to anyone and everyone. So whether you are coming to our province or leaving, all motorists will be treated the same. Our consistent approach in terms of the lawlessness, we will be there and will enforce from our side as much as we can.” Last week, Western Cape Traffic Services carried out a total of 193 integrated roadblocks, vehicle checkpoint and speed control operations across the province, and 28 540 vehicles were stopped and checked. South Africa will remain on lockdown Level 1 over Easter with certain adjustments:  South Africa will remain on level one of the COVID-19 lockdown over the Easter holidays with adjusted restrictions. President Cyril Ramaphosa announced this from the Union Buildings in Pretoria on Tuesday evening. Below is a list of things you need to know this Easter: