Peter Matlare’s relatives have described the late Deputy CEO of Absa as a pillar of strength around whom the family connected. Matlare succumbed to COVID19-related complications on Sunday. “Family was a cornerstone of Peter’s life. He used his talent and passion for cooking to regularly gather the family for Sunday lunches, and maintain deep connections in the family.  His support for family, friends and colleagues has left a lasting legacy,” his family says in a statement confirming his passing. The Matlares describe the 61-year-old as a consummate professional, who made an immense contribution to business in South Africa and across the African continent. BUSA CEO Cas Coovadia pays tribute to Peter Matlare:  The family says he believed deeply in the potential of Africa and was passionate about transforming businesses. “He also created opportunities for dozens of young managers and professionals to expand their horizons in the businesses he led,” the family says. Matlare has held senior positions in the corporate world, including at the SABC, Tiger Brands and Vodacom. Extremely saddened by the passing of a CEO I will always respect and admire! He left such a mark on me as a young Brand Manager at @TigerBrands and in my mind remains the best CEO the company has had. Poweful yet relatable. Rest in Peace. #PeterMatlare pic.twitter.com/vgNzpyIHAM — Mpumi Motsabi (@mpumijo) March 7, 2021  Former SABC Executive, Thami Ntenteni, describes him as a leader who left an indelible mark on all companies he led. “The period at which Matlare was the group CEO of the SABC, that was a time when the SABC was at its highest level of performance. He did not demand of others that which he did not put himself through. Peter occupied a number of senior positions in various companies and I think those companies still hold him in high esteem because of the quality of leadership that Peter brought in every organisation that he worked for,” says Ntenteni. Ntenteni’s tribute in the video below:  Other South Africans have also taken to social media to pay tribute to the late business executive. A giant tree has fallen.
I had admired Peter for a long time from a distance. Having a privilege of working so close with him, has been one of my career highs. He was a wonderful leader, a brilliant mind, kind, fun loving person. Death be not proud. MHSRIP #PeterMatlare pic.twitter.com/trPcCatO8a — Makhosazane (@MsKhosiMthethwa) March 7, 2021  Actually there is a 5th name and It would be wrong not to acknowledge the role Mathata Tsedu played in helping me along my career both as a TV broadcaster and newspaper columnist. Leaders mentoring in different aspects #PeterMatlare was amongst them. I am grateful MHSRIP https://t.co/8YGcvH5sua — Lerato Mbele (@mbele_lnb) March 7, 2021  I’m gutted to hear about the tragic and untimely passing of #PeterMatlare. I looked up to and respected you immensely! You achieved much in a short space of time, and we shared this strange love for broadcasting and media. Deepest condolences to your family. Rest Easy Sir  pic.twitter.com/iHp4n9QsCd — Chris Maroleng (@ChrisMaroleng) March 7, 2021  #PeterMatlare was totally committed to the public broadcast mandate. He resisted calls by consultants to “open the lines” and turn news radio into talk radio. He supported news when we said presenters should not read ads on air. Sadly much has changed but his legacy is huge. https://t.co/Cb1pj37rlE — Pippa Green (@green_pippa) March 7, 2021  Sad to hear this. He was a great leader and made us all believe in the good of the organisation. He will be sorely missed. #PeterMatlare https://t.co/80wgFwcEXl — Kass Naidoo (@KassNaidoo) March 7, 2021  Good night,. you were my inspiration since your Vodacom days, an epitome of excellence #PeterMatlare — Sbooh (@bmabuza) March 7, 2021 