GAVI – The Vaccine Alliance says that manufacturing capacity is one of the major constraints facing the COVAX facility, which is a global initiative aimed at equitable access and distribution of COVID-19 vaccines. The Vaccine Alliance co-leads the COVAX facility along with the World Health Organisation (WHO) and the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI). The COVAX facility is set to distribute around 35 million doses to more than 50 countries in the coming week while comparatively richer countries and regions streak ahead in their distribution and administration of vaccines. By the end of this week close to 100 million vaccine doses will have been administered in the United States of America (USA) alone, more than 22 million in the United Kingdom (UK), more than 300 million doses in the wider European region. The stress-test for the multilateral system remains acute even though it has met its forecast timelines with the first shipments of COVID-19 vaccines arriving in West Africa in late February. The SABC’s Sherwin Bryce-Pease spoke to Managing Director Thabani Maphosa:  Gavi’s Managing Director of Country Programmes Thabani Maphosa confirmed that COVAX donor pledges of some 6.3 billion dollars had reduced their shortfall to around 2 billion dollars as concern shifts from financing to manufacturing and supply. While negotiations continue around Intellectual Property waivers at the World Trade Organisation (WTO) to speed up access to vaccines, therapeutics and diagnostics, Maphosa points to manufacturing capacity as the immediate impediment to wider access. The WHO recently lauded a partnership between Johnson and Johnson and rival pharmaceutical company Merck, to collaborate on manufacturing J&J’s vaccine in an effort to speed up global vaccine capacity and supply. This is a race not only against time, but against mutations with the emergence of virus variants that are likely to test longer-term vaccine efficacy. COVAX to deliver at least 330 million COVID vaccines in the first half of 2021:  INFOGRAPHIC: How vaccine licensing works The infographic below shows the clinical trials that a vaccine goes through and how it is licensed: sabcnews.com | SABC News channel | SABC Radio news VACCINE LICENSING The Health Department’s admittance to Parliament that the Johnson and Johnson COVID-19 vaccine that is being administered has not being formally registered with the South African Health Products Regulatory Authority (SAHPRA) has put a spotlight on vaccine licencing. Below is the process of licensing a vaccine: -A vaccine developed and it is tested on animals to show that its safe and that it works. PRE-CLINICAL TRIALS PHASE 1: TEST THAT VACCINE IS SAFE  -Regulatory preparatory work required, site and institution to do vaccine testing identified and detailed proposal on protocol to be submitted and approved by scientific committee.  -Health regulator licenses product to be tested, less than 100 participants recruited for trials.   -A group given the vaccine and the other group receive a placebo (Inactive substance that looks like the vaccine) and if vaccine proves to be safe, you move to Phase 2. PHASE 2: CHECK WHETHER VACCINE INDUCES IMMUNE RESPONSE  -You recruit up to 500 people and test the dose on two or three groups which receive different doses and then you compare with placebo group.  -If your results show that your placebo is safe and produces the immune response that is expected, then the next is to go to phase 3. AMENDED LEVEL 3  Source:  ﻿Dr. Benjamin Kagina from UCT’s Vaccine for Africa. PHASES IN HUMAN TESTING PHASE 3: TEST VACCINE ON THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE  -You test whether the vaccine works by looking at the people who received the vaccine compared to the placebo group, do they develop the disease that you want to prevent?  - Findings and outcome of the trial. PHASE 3 B: IMPLEMENTATION STUDIES (Eg: The Johnson and Johnson’s Sisonke Protocol)  -You test on bigger numbers than phase 3, no one receives a placebo because you know the effectiveness of the product, you confirm the vaccine works and that its safe. This is done as you await registration. PHASE 4: LICENSING OF VACCINE  -Licensing of a vaccine happens after phase 3 of you trial shows that the product works.  -The regulator will assess the data that has been generated from the testing of this vaccine including animal study, phase 1, phase 2 and phase 3. They want data from various sources.  -Products is then licensed, given authority of usage by the World Health Organisation and the vaccine becomes commercial. -After being licenced it is tested on millions to monitoring of safety. (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document));