AmaBhaca Chief Thandisizwe Diko has been described as a champion of rural development. Diko was laid to rest at Elundzini Kingdom, KwaBhaca in the Eastern Cape. Government officials, traditional leaders and the AmaBhaca nation came in numbers to pay tribute to Diko. The AmaBhaca nation came in numbers to bid farewell to their king. According to AmaBhaca, Chief Thandisizwe Diko was installed as their king in 2010, after they were stripped of their kingship in the late 1800. In 2020 he was allegedly involved in the multi-million rand PPE tender that led to the suspension of his wife, Khusela Diko, as President Cyril Ramaphosa’s spokesperson. Family spokesperson, Lumko Mtimde says Chief Diko was dedicated to the development of the AmaBhaca nation. “A true African leader who put his people first. The Bhaca people were his first world. He was passionate about education, rural development, ICT access to fast speed broadband affordable to the people. That’s how passionate he was about making sure the people in rural areas are part of the world,” says Mtimde. Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga says Diko was dedicated to improving education in rural areas and developing KwaBhaca. “I last spoke to him before schools reopened and it was his own initiative and he said schools are reopening, what should we expect. He was reminding me some of the issues lacking behind and told him I’ll talk to you after announcing but we had an agreement also that I’ll come back after analyzing the results. He went to Gauteng and called on Bhacas to come back home, bring resources, come and talk to kids.” Chief Thandisizwe Diko has been praised for the role he played in re-establishing the AmaBhaca Kingdom, and leading traditional leaders in the Alfred Nzo District. Contralesa chairperson, Chief Mwelo Nonkonyane says, “As a traditional leader, he pointed out that the royal household should be the provider because at the royal palace everyone should come. Lubhacweni, which you see today, is not Lubhacweni that was before he took over. Indeed, he was a leader of the people and he led not only the people but the traditional leaders.” Eastern Cape Premier Oscar Mabuyane has urged the AmaBhaca to use proper channels to ensure their kingdom is recognised. Mabuyane says Diko played a big role in developing the youth in the Alfred Nzo district. “Indeed we lost a partner to development. We’ve spoken about the issue the AmaBhaca have declared him as their chief. We don’t dispute that, culturally the process of identifying chiefs and kings is a process of royal family. Government is not a stumbling block but we’ve got to process it to its logical conclusion and unfortunately the final arbiter on who becomes a king based on the submission made by families, it must be the president.” The AmaBhaca nation has urged government to continue assisting them with community development projects. Tributes pour in for Chief Thandisizwe Diko:    