Broadcaster and Journalist Karima Brown has passed away on Thursday morning from COVID-19 related complications. This has been confirmed by her family and employer ENCA, where Brown hosted the programme ‘The Fix’. She was admitted to hospital after contracting coronavirus. The family statement read: “It is with deep sadness that we inform the public that our beloved sister and mother, Karima Brown, passed away this morning. She died from COVID-19 related complications.” “Karima was not just a prolific and well-known South African journalist and commentator, with deep footprints in print and broadcast media, but also and more importantly a well-loved friend, mentor, mother, colleague, daughter, and confidante to countless people throughout a life lived fully, and with a deep commitment to her most cherished values and principles.” Brown will be laid to rest in a private burial ceremony which will be held in accordance with Islamic rites and traditions. A small number of invited persons will attend the funeral and all COVID-19 regulations will be observed. In due course, an announcement will be made about a more public memorial service in honour of her life. Family statement: The media fraternity reacts to her death: My deepest condolences to Karima Brown’s family following the news of her passing. She was courageous, bold and incredibly fearless. May her soul rest in peace. — Cathy Mohlahlana (@CathyMohlahlana) March 4, 2021  I’m shattered to hear the news of Karima Brown’s passing. She fought hard for young talent in newsrooms. I’m one of those she gave platform to when many wouldn’t. I know she was fighting hard in hospital but ultimately the choice is never really ours.May her soul rest in peace — Ziyanda N (@ZiyandaNgcobo) March 4, 2021  Absolutely devastated to hear that we have lost Karima Brown to COVID-19. I’ve known her since the 1980s in Cape Town fighting for justice, democracy and non-racialism in UDF structures. She never stopped that fight. Long live her fighting spirit, long live! #RIPKarimaBrown — Madeleine Fullard (@mfullard2) March 4, 2021 