Learners at Balasi Junior Secondary School in Qumbu in the Eastern Cape, are taught in crammed classrooms after a part of the roof was ripped off by a storm last year. One block of the school with six classrooms has been abandoned as it poses a threat to learners. The school personnel has made alternatives, to convert a school library and parts of the staff room into classrooms. From a distance, it’s evident the school is in a dire state. The block of classrooms that are ripped, have plants that have grown and some have become shelter for animals. The parents have partitioned the school library to arrange make-shift classrooms. School learners Avela Gwaza and Onako Botya say the conditions are tough. “The upper block of classrooms are leaking and we would get very cold. The floors have big holes and frogs would just come in while we are learning.” “We don’t have enough classrooms and now we get crammed in classrooms and uses the staffroom as a classroom. There is no space and no social distancing.” Parents Mzwandile Ntaka and Bukelwa Kondlo say they have reported the matter to the authorities, however, no action has been taken so far. “We have reported the matter to the provincial department since 2018 in vain. These classes are dilapidated and a threat to our children. The principal had been going to the district office to report the matter until he passed on.” “We don’t feel good about the condition of the school. Even me I learnt here it was like this and when it rains the water gets inside. Especially during this COVID-19 period children get crammed into classrooms.” The provincial department of basic education says the process is stalled due to budget constraints. Spokesperson Malibongwe Mtima explains. “Balasi JSS is one of the schools that was hit by the Disaster in December 2018, so it’s on the list of schools to be attended to by the Department. The assessment was made by BTKM (Construction Company) but nothing has been done now due to budget cuts. Despite that water and sanitation are still fine. The school is part of the department’s plan, the dragging is due to budget constraints.” Parents are making a plea for the intervention to be fast-tracked, as the conditions pose a health risk to learners.