Government will soon make an announcement on whether or not to ease restrictions on the size of congregations ahead of the upcoming Easter, Passover and Ramadan holidays. In his letter to the nation on Monday, President Cyril Ramaphosa says the matter is being deliberated on following a request by a number of religious organisations. He says while every effort must be made to support the right to religious freedom, this must not place the rights or the lives of others at risk. In light of the threat of a third wave of the coronavirus, Ramaphosa has encouraged religious communities to continue to innovate in the holding of congregational worship. While the President has expressed an appreciation of the logistical and financial difficulties suffered of the last year by these groups, he says public health and safety must be the paramount consideration. Ramaphosa has reiterated that large gatherings have the potential to spread the virus, despite the application of measures around social distancing and sanitising. SA citizens urged to adhere to expected Easter restrictions amid third wave:  Cancellation of  Easter church service Meanwhile, Archbishop Daniel Mathe of the St. Johns Apostolic Faith Mission Church of South Africa, says with the imminent threat of the third wave after Easter, the church has decided to cancel their Good Friday service in an effort to prevent the spread of the virus. “What we are saying is that we cannot hold Easter because of this disease, it kills. It is very dangerous. That is why we have cancelled the Good Friday (service); we are only having the Sunday prayer,” says Mathe. However, the South African Council of Churches (SACC) says it is concerned about reports that the National Coronavirus Advisory Council has advised the government to place the country on either alert Level 2 or 3 lockdown regulations to avoid the spread of the virus over the Easter weekend. It says all the churches are looking forward to celebrating Easter, which they did not do last year due to stringent lockdown regulations.