Political parties, including the African National Congress (ANC) and Inkatha Freedom Party (IFP), have conveyed their sadness following the passing of  King Goodwill Zwelithini kaBhekuzulu. The National People’s Front (NAPF), the break-away party from the National Freedom Party, has expressed its condolences to the King’s family. The leader of the party, Bheki Gumbi, says the King’s passing is painful and the NAPF has no words to describe the pain it is feeling. He says the party regards this day as a black Friday for the Zulu Nation and the KwaZulu-Natal province. The ANC has described the late King as a courageous leader, who was concerned about the well-being of all South Africans regardless of their tribe. Below is a timeline of key moments of the King’s life:  The governing party says His Majesty was central in bringing peace during the height of political violence  in Gauteng and KwaZulu-Natal. Party spokesperson Pule Mabe says the king will be remembered for his progressive role in the development of his nation. Inkatha Freedom Party (IFP) President Velenkosini Hlabisa says the King remained a champion of the ongoing struggle for full liberation from the bonds of social and economic injustice. “The loss of his Majesty the King will he mourned in millions of homes for he led his people with dignity, wisdom and compassion.  His Majesty was an example as he called the nation to return to subsistence farming, to produce food and invest in Agriculture. He revived the culture of the Zulu Nation and preserved values and tradition of the Zulu people,” says Hlabisa. Hlabisa’s full tribute in the video below:  Great loss to KZN people The provincial government suspended all government programmes on Friday, as the Zulu Nation mourns the death of the King. It described the King’s passing as a great loss to the people of the province. Speaker of the KwaZulu-Natal Legislature Nontembeko Boyce has called for unity at this difficult time. “We had a very close relationship with His Majesty when we were always having an event of opening the legislature where his Majesty would come and address us. I send my condolences as well to the government of KwaZulu-Natal and all those who were working close with his Majesty. I say to indlu yonke kaZulu the entire Royal Household may you all be consoled and remember the times that we spent with His Majesty and we all be united in this time of grief,” says Boyce. His Majesty was in hospital for over a month and his family said he succumbed to the COVID-19 pandemic. He contracted the virus in hospital while he was being treated for diabetes. Preparations for his burial are under way. While addressing the nation earlier, Zulu nation Prime Minister Dr Mangosuthu Buthelezi said the King’s body will lie in state for few days so that anyone can come pay tribute. Dr Buthelezi has since urged mourners to observe COVID-19 health protocols as they visit the family to pay their respects. Some of the Zulu king’s best quotes:   