Students from the University of KwaZulu-Natal are doing their bit for Earth Hour by cleaning up Durban’s harbour precinct. The initiative – that’s also identified the overwhelming amount of single-use plastic that lands up in the ocean – is in commemoration of Earth Hour. UKZN students pick up plastic waste at the Durban Harbour:  Students Pinky Ndwalane and Asanda Africanda, who took part in the clean-up, say they want to make a difference for future generations. “It is of vital importance to keep our environment clean because we actually depend on our environment for survival. For instance, we consume fish and if we were to pollute the marine area then it means we are reducing our ecological systems. We need to be our leaders for tomorrow today and make the changes as the youth. So, we had to come out as opposed to sitting at home and watching TV.” The clean-up was spearheaded by marine biologist Dr Refilwe Mofokeng from the University of KwaZulu-Natal. Mofokeng is encouraging everyone to consider their role in plastic usage and disposal. “We only have 1 earth to go around and it’s best for us to look after it and sustain it and the marine life has been suffering, but now, as you know, we’ve just been through this pandemic the COVID-19 and one big worry that’s coming through is the once-off use of masks and because we have this throw-away culture, as a people, we are bound to find them lying around and that also adds on the problem that we already have. 75% of our planet is water and lots of the pollution in the water is going unnoticed.” South Africans are encouraged to do their part by switching off the lights at home between 8h30 and 9h30 tonight. South Africans are being urged to look after their environment and recycle plastic waste – especially single-use plastics like cold drink bottles – as the world marks Earth Hour today. Mofokeng is encouraging everyone to consider their role in plastic usage and disposal… “When we use an item of plastic we don’t really get to understand or think of the life cycle of it. So it lasts 20 mins in your hands but then it’s 20 years in the environment and you must think of the contaminants it comes with it. (…) We cannot afford to live in silos and not care about the environment. We are part of the environment.”