Over 100 million COVID-19 vaccine doses have been administered across China, an official of the National Health Commission (NHC) said Sunday. At a press conference held in Beijing on Sunday, Wu Liangyou, Deputy Director of the NHC’s Disease Prevention and Control Bureau, said that progress has been made by authorities across China in the vaccination drive, with the priority put on the key groups with high risk of COVID-19, including large and medium-sized cities, port cities and border areas. “To fulfill the assigned tasks and goals, authorities at all levels in China have formulated vaccination plans and are pushing forward with related work. So far, over 100 million COVID-19 vaccine doses had been administered across China, with the daily record for administering
COVID-19 vaccines set on March 26, when 6.119 million doses were administered,” said Wu. Wu said that going forward, China will step up efforts to accelerate vaccine distribution and ensure stable vaccine supply. “In the next step, we will continue to press ahead with the vaccination campaign targeted at key groups in key areas. First, we will steadily expand the capacity of vaccination services, optimise vaccine distribution process, improve the efficiency of vaccine circulation and transportation, and determine the amount of distributed vaccines in a scientific manner, with a view to meeting the citizen’s needs for vaccination. Moreover, it is necessary to strengthen the synergy between departments, and coordinate with the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology to ensure the vaccine supply,” said Wu. Staff of government departments, public institutions and enterprises, students and faculty of colleges and universities, service personnel of large supermarkets were among the first to receive vaccine in the early stage of China‘s vaccination campaign. At the same time, China has steadily promoted vaccination among people aged over 60 and those with chronic diseases, in a bid to improve the vaccination coverage rates, said Wu.