Former African National Congress (ANC) Secretary-General, Gwede Mantashe, says he did not know who paid for security cameras at his two Eastern Cape properties in 2016. Testifying before the State Capture Commission, Mantashe said that he entrusted details relating to his security to ANC Security head, Mzonke Nyakaza. He was responding to testimony by former Bosasa Chief Operations Officer, Angelo Aggizzi, and an employee of the company Richard Le Roux that he accepted personal benefit that Bosasa dispensed to influence persons in order to gain an advantage in relation to the winning of state tenders. Mantashe was responding to Commission evidence leader, advocate Viwe Notshe. He explained how the cameras were first installed at his Boksburg property. “ I had two attempted break-ins on my property in Boksburg and when I had a discussion with my security advisor who was employed by the ANC to deal with my security, we agreed that we needed cameras. So that whenever there would be investigations we would have the ability to assist in the investigations. And then I gave the work to the security advisor, he had to deal with it because he knows the field and I do not know the field. He bought cameras to install on my property.” He confirmed that cameras were then later installed at his Eastern Cape properties as well. “We saw the effectiveness of the cameras in Boksburg and thought that we needed them in the Eastern Cape because we are absentee landlords and then we installed them.” Mantashe said that the security advisor was in charge of the work that was done on the properties.  “In the political settings, there is a very strict division of labour; I was kept out of details of security arrangement. The security advisor handled that aspect himself.” Mantashe said no invoices were sent to him:  Agrizzi and Le Roux earlier testified that the cost of the work at Mantashe’s two Eastern Cape properties came to R600 000 and R300 000 respectively. However, Mantashe says while he cannot dispute this as he was not invoiced for the work that was done, the estimates of the cost are contradictory and suspicious. He says Bosasa Ddrector and family friend, Papa Leshabane, who bore the cost of the installations, estimated the cost at around R50 000. “I had no dealings with Le Roux nor did I have dealings with Agrizzi I had dealings with Leshabane so if there were any statements to be sent I assume that Le Roux would send them to Leshabane and Leshebane said to us I will install these cameras at my cost. I would assume that the statements and invoices will to Leshabane so I cannot dispute anything all I am saying a dispute between Le Roux and Agrizzi that almost doubled the cost looks suspicious.”  