WARNING: This story contains graphic information that can upset sensitive readers. A 60-year-old pensioner has alleged her son has raped her for years. Lena (not her real name) says it happened at a shack where they both stay in Sebokeng, in southern Gauteng. Irate community members claim efforts to get officials involved were in vain, but social workers have committed to assist her to open a case. Her 37-year-old son, who is the suspect, is expected to be sent for a mental evaluation. In the shack emerges a dark tale of abuse and suffering, mindless torment, and little respite for over a decade. “January, February, March doing this. It’s been many years,” claims the mother. 60-year-old Lena says her son sleeps in this bedroom. “I sleep in the kitchen, he sleeps in the bedroom.” But it hasn’t stopped the abuse. “He’d then wake up during the night, and come in the kitchen. He’d order me to open the blankets. I’d gasp for air when I hear those words, I’d even struggle to breathe. I’m sad. I feel sad.” The repeated abuse is what she vividly recalls. “It happened on several occasions. He’d forcefully take off the blankets. Imagine the pain, forcing me to undress. I’m heartbroken. You give birth to a child. You are later raped by the same child. I would feel stressed. My health is deteriorating because of this.” But she discloses a disturbing twist about her alleged abuser. “He’s on drugs. He’d hallucinate. He once burnt the shack. At the time, I was doing piece jobs. A neighbour alerted me about my shack which was destroyed by a fire. I lost everything.” The salient question here is why would such a heinous crime continue for 10 years without intervention? “I just want to leave this place, it’s painful.” Social Development has stepped in. “What we are going to do, when she arrives at the old age home, she will be provided with counselling. She will also get a medical assessment. So, those are the support that we are going to give, and we are also going to make sure that she is protected,” says Sedibeng Social Development Acting Director, Micheal Marubini. Social workers have committed to assist her to locate her relatives and open a criminal case. GRAPHIC CONTENT | A 60-year old pensioner alleges her son raped her for years 