Family and friends of 22-year-old Musa Magasela have called on the authorities to bring to book those responsible for his death. They made the call at the 22-year-old’s funeral service in Olifantsfontein, east of Johannesburg. Magasela died over a week ago after he was allegedly shot by police. It’s believed police mistook him for a hijacker. The police watchdog, IPID, is investigating the matter. Family spokesperson, Lehlohonolo Makwela, says they are struggling to come to terms with the tragedy. “It’s very hard for everyone in the family. Musa was a very great person, happy. He was a very important member of the family and it’s quite hard to comprehend what happens to him. We accept the lord’s faith. Justice and the law to take its cause so that the family can find peace and closure. We must hope justice will prevail in the end,” says Makwela. His longtime friend, Tebogo Baloyi, says he’s still devastated by the loss of his friend and brother. “It’s sad that even the night before the whole thing that happened I was with him here. I’m really in disbelief because I try to accept it, it’s hard to. It’s just sad, really devastating. It’s really sad to lose someone we really love. The best thing that will really make me happy or one of the good things that can make me happy is to see these guys being caught and arrested. What we want is justice,” says Baloyi. The deceased’s colleague and friend in the music industry, Mnqobi Nxumalo, says much was expected from Magasela as he was still young. “It’s really sad it’s only today that I believe. Missing his body today was like yeah the final strike he’s actually really gone and what happened happened. It’s sad and painful but I think we need to face reality to what happened. I’ll remember his laughter he was always laughing, anywhere he was there’s going to be laugher and fun. I’ll miss him for his traveling. He will just rock up one day and say let’s go to North West and Shaya jika just one random day.” Magasela was laid to rest at the Bredell Cemetery in Kempton Park. GRAPHIC CONTENT | Yet another murder, allegedly at the hands of police: 