The Zulu royal family says they will meet on Saturday to discuss preparations for the burial of AmaZulu King Goodwill Zwelithini kaBhekuzulu. President declares special official funeral for King Goodwill Zwelethini Kabhekuzulu https://t.co/OavGC08BYr — Presidency | South Africa  (@PresidencyZA) March 12, 2021  The 72-year old king died of COVID-19 related complications in a Durban hospital. He had been in hospital for just over a month after being admitted for diabetes, according to the traditional Prime Minister of the Zulu nation – Prince Mangosuthu Buthelezi. The king’s brother Prince Mbonisi Zulu has described his death as a great loss to the family. “As the family, we haven’t had the meeting together, but everything is being led by Prince of kwaPhindangene, and the entire Royal family members. I believe once we meet tomorrow that’s when we will inform the world what is going to happen.” Prince Mbonisi says the king had played a fatherly role in the royal family. “He was a father figure to us. He will tell you straight when you are not doing right. That is why he was recommended by a senior king in the entire continent.  So we were so blessed to have such a wonderful king. It’s a great loss. I would say from the Department of Education, the political parties and everybody, it is a great loss. When you talk about Zulu King because he is one of the longest-serving King in our Kingdom,  I’m very proud but it’s a great loss. We don’t know what is going to happen tomorrow because he instills that we need to unite. More especially to the entire Royal family.” KZN government to work with Royal family Meanwhile, KZN Premier Sihle Zikalala has announced that government will appoint an Inter-Ministerial team that will work with the AmaZulu royal family to plan and coordinate all events in the lead up to and including the funeral, memorial and burial. Zikalala briefed the media earlier and also announced a week of mourning in the province. “As the province, we declare this whole week as a week for mourning. Meaning all government and private functions must be suspended. On Thursday the 18th of March we call for prayer, prayer service throughout the province of KwaZulu-Natal to pray for the Zulu Nation following the passing of his majesty. Government will be working and appoint the team of MECs, the inter-ministerial committee that will work with the Royal house in the preparations for all activities leading to the burial ukutshalwa kweSilo ” The longest reigning Zulu King remembered:  