The African National Congress (ANC) has paid tribute to the late former Deputy Minister of Trade and Industry, Small Business Development and Tourism, Elizabeth Thabethe. She died on Friday at the age of 62. Thabethe had been hospitalised for some time following a car accident. She was recently appointed as a member of the Presidential Advisory Committee on Investment. In a statement, the ANC has described Thabethe as a true servant of South Africans as well as a dedicated cadre of the liberation movement. The party says Thabethe was dedicated to economically empowering black people. “Comrade Thabethe worked tirelessly for the economic empowerment of black people, especially women, youth and people with disabilities. Many emerging entrepreneurs will remember her as their trusted friend and champion. Her death marks the end of a revolutionary life that was genuinely dedicated to the vision of a better life for all. She placed the plight and aspirations of the oppressed masses above her own life and personal comfort.” To honour Thabethe, the ruling party says it will work tirelessly to achieve the kind of society for which she sacrificed her life. “The best tribute we can pay to her is to continue to work tirelessly in pursuit of the kind of society for which she sacrificed most of her life. This will be a fitting tribute to this distinguished daughter of the soil.” ‘Champion of economic transformation’ President Cyril Ramaphosa also expressed condolences to Thabethe’s family following her passing. He described Thabethe as a champion of economic transformation. “She was a champion of economic transformation and equity, who worked tirelessly in our country and internationally in pursuit of economic inclusion and shared prosperity. Elizabeth Thabethe’s contribution to our society will endure in the networks she built and unlocked in support of our economic objectives. It also lives on in the work opportunities, new enterprises and growing investment flows that are making a difference in the lives of millions of South Africans.” The ANC has sent its condolences to Thabethe’s family and colleagues.