“We are ready to get to work “ The words of the new United States Ambassador to the United Nations who assumed the Security Council Presidency earlier today for the month of March. Ambassador Linda Thomas-Greenfield – who was confirmed to her Cabinet level position late last week – has literally hit the road running in representing a new administration that is seeking to restore its leadership role on the world stage while repairing alliances and a trust-deficit generated under the “America First” policy of the former administration. The newly minted US envoy says her country wants to lead by example by recommitting to democracy and human rights around the world – a heavy lift after four years of increased unilateralism and a greater inward looking approach from the administration of former President Donald Trump. “In President Biden’s inaugural address he declared that America would engage with the world, we would repair our alliances and be a strong and trust partner for peace, progress and security. He pledged that we would be a nation that leads, in his words, not only by the example of our power but by the power of our example. This is how he has asked me to represent the United States at the UN.” Ambassador Linda Thomas-Greenfield listed a number of tangible changes since the new administration took office in January: -Rejoining the WHO and restoring its funding. -Up to $4 billion dollars pledged to the COVAX facility. -Restoring support to UN Population Fund and eliminating the global gag rule that stopped funding over reproductive rights issues. -Returning to the Human Rights Council. -And Ending the Muslim Ban among others. “These actions not only reflect our values as Americans, they advance the security and the prosperity Americans as well as others around the world. By rejoining the WHO, we will work to snap out the pandemic that has taken more American lives than the battlefields of world war one, world war two and the Vietnam wars combined. By rejoining the Paris Agreement, we’re fighting against the devastating hurricanes, wildfires, blackouts and storms that have destroyed the homes and lives of so many millions of our friends and neighbours.” Raising two country situations – the coup in Myanmar which she vowed to monitor very closely in addition to the deteriorating human rights and humanitarian conditions in Ethiopia’s Tigray region: 