Limpopo police say over 1 400 suspects have been arrested for various offences including murder, theft and possession of suspected stolen vehicles this weekend. Police Spokesperson Moatshe Ngoepe says seven suspected stolen vehicles were recovered. He says a truck traveling from Gauteng province to Malawi was loaded with dissembled suspected stolen motor bikes at the Beitbridge Border Post in Musina. Ngoepe says, “1 473 suspects were arrested for various offense ranges from burglaries possession for stolen properties. A number of items were recovered that include counterfeit cigarettes and various drugs. Seven suspected stolen cars, nine illegal firearms and ammunition and extra.” Northern Cape arrests A 27-year old man has been arrested after allegedly being found in possession of explosives inside a bank in Noupoort in the Northern Cape. Police Spokesperson Dimakatso Mooi says police were responding to an ATM bombing when they found the suspect. “Police in Noupoort swiftly responded to an ATM bombing at a well-known bank. The members found the suspect inside the bank before he could flee the scene. No cash was taken and a 27-year-old man was arrested under the Explosive Act and for business burglary. He is expected to appear before Noupoort Magistrates’ Court soon. Police investigations continue.” KZN arrests Meanwhile, three foreign nationals have been arrested following inspections in the Durban CBD at the weekend. The visits monitor compliance. Spokesperson for the Department of Economic Development, Bheki Mbanjwa, says compliance notices and fines were issued to four nightclubs for contravening the lockdown regulations and the Disaster Management Act. “Some of these places continued to trade in contravention of the Disaster Management Act because under the current lockdown regulations, nightclubs are not supposed to be opened. This was a multi-pronged inspection, which also involved officials from immigration services and the liquor authority and gaming and betting board. We also arrested three people who are suspected of being illegal foreign nationals; one of those is a nightclub owner. Further to that, there were compliance notices and a fine issues to about four nightclubs for trading in contravention of the Disaster Management Act.”