Students from the University of Johannesburg (UJ) are planning to intensify their protest action on Monday morning. They have been gathering since 05:00 am on Monday morning at the Kingsway Campus in Auckland Park, amid heavy police presence. Private security is also guarding the entrance of the campus and closely monitoring the students.  Scenes from UJ student protest #SABCNews #FeesMustFall #FeesMustFall2021 pic.twitter.com/t5wke8Ox6v — lebotshangela (@lebotshangela) March 15, 2021  Earlier, a small group of UJ students blockaded several roads with burning tyres and rocks outside the SABC headquarters in Auckland Park. UJ student leader Tiego Khoza says, “Students are gathering in numbers. We are anticipating more students and once students start arriving in numbers we will start to move. We have a strategy. Unfortunately, we are dealing with a very repressive institution so I cannot reveal that strategy but it is overwhelming.” “The security build-up is tense, there are police Nyalas, private security of UJ is already here. So we are expecting a lot. So we are hoping for the best for us and all other institutions across the country and I encourage everyone to please go out and support the students,” explains Khoza. In the video below, students blockade roads as protests gain momentum:  JMPD deployed in Joburg CBD The Johannesburg Metro Police Department (JMPD) says it has increased its deployments in and around the Johannesburg CBD, where students are expected to resume with protests on Monday morning. JMPD Spokesperson Xolani Fihla says, “JMPD officers are on high alert as we are expecting students to continue with their protest action in the Braamfontein Precinct, Jhb CBD and in Auckland Park. In the video below, SABC News’ Hasina Gori is reporting from outside UJ:  Wits SRC urges students to unite despite political affiliations Meanwhile, the Student Representative Council (SRC) at Wits University has called on all students’ leaders across the country to unite, despite their political affiliations. This comes amid calls for a shutdown of all institutions of higher learning. It’s part of the students’ ongoing protests in which they are demanding free higher education. They also want students to be allowed to register for the 2021 academic year even if they have historical debt. Wits SRC president Mpendulo Mfeka says, “We want to encourage all the young people in the country to unite. The divisions of the party badge they are narrow and they are stupid. We must not be divided on the basis that we are from the PAC, DA, EFF, or whatever organisation.” “We must be able to transcend political differences as some in their respective organisations will try and use us for their selfish acts now and then. It might work but we must try and fight against it. Black people have suffered far too long in this world and if we stand down now history will judge us very harshly,” explains Mfeka. In the video below, Sasco calls for a national shutdown of institutions of higher learning: 