African Christian Democratic Party (ACDP) leader Reverend Kenneth Meshoe says fear must not be used as a tool to impose harder lockdown restrictions ahead of the Easter long weekend. Authorities are warning people to avoid attending large events that could be super-spreaders of COVID-19 during this period. Meshoe says there’s no reason to impose harder lockdown restrictions as infections are low. “The ACDP believes that time has come for lockdown restrictions to be lifted rather talk about more stringent provisions particularly because the infections at this stage are low. Those who are saying lockdown levels must be moved from one to even three, we don’t think that is correct because those are speaking from a position of fear and presumption. We believe Parliament must be consulted when it comes to the extension of the disaster management provision and its contents but to restrict people because of fear cannot be used as a reason to impose harder lockdown restrictions.” Prof. Mlisana appeals to SA to adhere to restrictions if implemented The newly appointed Co-Chair of the Ministerial Advisory Committee (MAC) on COVID-19 Professor Kholeka Mlisana has appealed for South Africans to strictly adhere to any further coronavirus restrictions, expected to be imposed by government, ahead of the Easter Weekend. Professor Mlisana was appointed as the new Chairperson of the MAC after Professor Salim Abdool Karim resigned. Karim tendered his resignation, indicating that he wants to return to the work he was doing on HIV research and innovation before his appointment. The Committee has voiced concern over a potential third wave of coronavirus infections, following the Easter holiday period. Mlisana says people must try to avoid large gatherings. “Make sure that we try as much as we can to prevent any large gatherings that might trigger the infections. It is going to be important that we adhere to whatever restrictions that government is going to come up with. I know that we are facing Easter weekend in a few days and it is important that we stick to whatever numbers that government is going to give to us because remember that wherever there are huge gatherings, that is where we create super spreader events and we want to avoid that.” Prof Mlisana on her appointment:  The number of coronavirus cases in South Africa has increased to 1 544 466, with 1 387 new cases in the last 24-hours. The Health Department also reported 46 more COVID-19-related deaths, taking the total since the outbreak of the pandemic to 52 648. Latest SA COVID-19 stats:  Loading… (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document));