President Cyril Ramaphosa will address the nation at 19:30 on Tuesday on developments in the country’s response to the COVID-19 pandemic. The address follows recent meetings with the National Coronavirus Command Council as the South Africans prepare for Easter festivities this coming weekend. SA citizens urged to adhere to COVID-19 restrictions amid third wave fears:  In a statement, Ramaphosa says government is constantly monitoring infection, treatment and patient recovery rates. “As South Africa rolls out its national COVID-19 vaccination programme, government and social partners are continuously monitoring infection, treatment and patient recovery rates, as well as compliance with health regulations and other prevention measures,” he says. Tourism sector’s expectations ahead of President Ramaphosa’s address:  Last week, experts advised government to put the country under a stricter lockdown level for the Easter weekend. They further warned that a third wave of coronavirus infections could hit South Africa after the holiday period. South Africa warned of a possible third wave of COVID-19:  Health Minister Dr Zweli Mkhize, has said strict precautionary measures will be taken over the Easter weekend to prevent potential coronavirus super spreader events. Mkhize says it is crucial to take safety measures, particularly over the holiday period. However, this has some members of the Christian community hot under the collar. On Tuesday morning, the South African National Christian Forum threatened to take government to court should it impose a ban on religious gatherings this Easter. Western Cape Premier Alan Winde also doesn’t believe the country should be moved to Alert Level 2 lockdown over the Easter period. He says such a move will undermine plans for economic recovery. Discussion on Easter weekend under lockdown with Bishop Malusi Mpumlwana:  South Africa currently has 1 545 979 COVID-19 infections and 52 710 related fatalities. Recoveries currently stand at 1 472 645, translating to a 95% recovery rate.  Loading… (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document));