President Cyril Ramaphosa will deliver the eulogy at the memorial service for King Goodwill Zwelithini kaBhekuzulu at around 10 am this morning. The service will be carried live on SABC platforms including TV, radio and online. People are urged to watch the ceremony using these media and not to visit Nongoma because of the coronavirus pandemic. The King Shaka Visitor’s Centre at KwaDukuza in northern KwaZulu-Natal has experienced an increase in visitors since the passing of the King. The King of the Zulu nation was laid to rest at the KwaDlamahlahla palace in Nongoma in northern KwaZulu-Natal, in a ceremony called ukutshalwa in the early hours of Thursday morning. In Zulu culture, the term ukutshalwa refers to the belief that a King never dies but he is planted. The longest-serving Zulu monarch died from COVID-19 complications last week. He has been hailed for reviving Zulu culture, strong traditional leadership, and leading the call for many social challenges like the fight against HIV/Aids. The life and times of King Goodwill Zwelithini kaBhekuzulu: Part 1  The interment or ukutshalwa – at the KwaDlamahlahla palace was a private ceremony attended by a select few male members of the Royal Family and from the King’s regiments or amabutho. His Majesty’s amabutho has played a significant role since collecting his mortal remains, through the streets of Nongoma to his beloved KwaKhethomthandayo Royal palace where he grew up as a child and to his final resting place at the KwaDlamahlahla palace. Significance of Ambutho Professor Sihawu Ngubane from the University of KwaZulu-Natal says: “The significance of Amabutho is that they are part of his entourage. Wherever he goes you may remember that when he visited Wales he was with almost 200 Amabutho. So wherever he goes, he goes with Amabutho because he establishes the regiments. He chooses a certain age of men to become official regiments. So they are part and parcel of his tenure as the King and if the new king comes in he will also use them.” Along with the Amabutho, colourfully clad Zulu maidens were also present along King Goodwill Zwelithini kaBhekuzulu’s final journey. Dr Bhelindaba Mkhize from the Umsamo Institute explains their significance. “They are still clean and they haven’t been touched by a man. Signifying that when he arrives at his ancestors nothing must disturb him. He must be as clean as possible. We all know that women go to their menstruation, and our belief is that they may be dirty for that particular period,” says Dr Mkhize. Maidens and warriors accompany the King’s remains:  Dr Mkhize says the King is laid to rest at night due to various reasons. “Any King lives through Izinyanga (traditional healers). He has got izintelezi, he has got his own mutis, but remember those sorcerers. So, in other words, Abathakathi bakhona. We have to protect, we have to hide where he has been buried. Maybe it can be said where he is lying; maybe after 6 months or a year or whatever. But for a time being, we have to protect that for the purposes of the family and for the purposes of the nation at large.” King’s body to be interred:  Lockdown regulations But despite calls from amaZulu Prime Minister, Mangosuthu Buthelezi and members of the royal family for people to remain at home and obey lockdown regulations, this was not the case, as hundreds turned out to pay their final respects. Health Minister Dr Zweli Mkhize has reiterated that COVID-19 is very serious: 