Former president, Jacob Zuma, has joined senior politicians at KwaKhethomthandayo Royal Palace in Nongoma, northern KwaZulu-Natal, to pay their respects to the King of AmaZulu Goodwill Zwelithini. The remains of the 72-year-old AmaZulu monarch will be ‘planted,’ on Wednesday night. He succumbed to COVID-19 at a Durban hospital last week. An official memorial will be held on Thursday. King Zwelithini kaBhekuzulu to be laid to rest in a men-only private funeral:  Zuma has described the King as being much-loved for his compassion and care. “The entire country is mourning with us because our King welcomed and protected everyone; he never discriminated against anyone. Our King was full of love, the kind of love you feel even by just looking at him; he was a loving King. He wanted peace, he wanted us to respect each other. The greatest gift he gave us as his subjects was to revive our sacred cultural ceremonies including instilling respect; that also was evident as most people loved him. We knew that we were safe under the leadership of our King. It is a great loss,” says the former president. Zuma has called on the nation of AmaZulu to remain united in honour of the fallen monarch. “We came here to pay our respects, we know pretty well the pain you are going through. There was nothing more that could have been done when God decided to take our King, let us accept our fate. Let us release our King to go well to his ancestors, let his spirit go well; not to look back and see us in deep pain. Let his spirit go freely, let us honour him by continuing being a strong united nation as he used to tell us his subjects.” Former President Jacob Zuma pays tribute to the late King:  Family expresses gratitude The Zulu Royal Family has thanked South Africans for their messages of condolence sent after the passing of King Zwelithini kaBhekuzulu. The family says the institution of traditional leadership has been a pillar of strength during this time. In a statement, the family says it is also indebted to the leaders of all political parties for their support during this difficult period. The family has expressed its appreciation for President Cyril Ramaphosa’s declaration that the King would be accorded a Special Official Funeral, Category One. The legacy of King Goodwill Zwelithini kaBhekuzulu: 