The husband of one of the women who were shot and killed during a hostage incident at Matsea Village, in Mankweng, outside Polokwane, in Limpopo on Sunday says he is traumatised. Frans Moreroa’s 50-year-old wife was killed, while the couple’s 16-year-old daughter was injured. The man also shot dead 25-year-old Sara Mokwela in a separate incident. The suspect, Joel Maponya, was then shot dead during a shootout with police. The 33-year-old allegedly kidnapped Mokwela and took her to the veld. Mokwela’s body was discovered today with gunshot wounds. After shooting Mokwela, Maponya allegedly went to the Moreroa family home, where he took Frans Moreroa’s wife and daughter hostage. Joyce Moreroa was later shot dead, while 16-year-old Mokgadi Moreroa was critically injured. Frans says the incident has forever changed the life of his family. “We are very traumatised. Now, I’m alone. I don’t know who is gonna look after my kids. So, it changed the whole dimension of my life. So, that is the big concern from the family because the weapon from the state is the one that killed my wife,” he says. Makgoba Moremi Rapetsoa, who is Joyce Moreroa’s sister, is concerned that Maponya allegedly used a police firearm that was issued to his brother, who is a police officer. She says the state must account for the incident because the firearm belongs to the police. “My sister is killed by the person of the family, but my concern is that the gun is for the brother. The brother is a police officer,” she says. Police spokesperson, Matlafela Mojapelo, says they are investigating cases ranging from murder to attempted murder. “We are now investigating three murder cases, six counts of attempted murder and unlawful possession of firearms and ammunition our preliminary investigations reveal that the firearms itself belongs to the bother of the hostage taker and it’s reportedly a member of the Johannesburg Metro Police,” he says. The motive for the shootings is not yet known, but Maponya is related to the victims.