Son of the late AmaZulu King Goodwill Zwelithini kaBhekuZulu, Prince Nhlanganiso Zulu, says they are still coming to terms with the passing of their father. The Zulu monarch passed on at a Durban hospital last Friday from COVID-19 related complications. The Kwakhethomthandayo Royal Palace in Nongoma in northern KwaZulu-Natal has been abuzz with activity as a stream of senior politicians, local mourners, and religious leaders continue to arrive to pay their respects. Police and palace staff have been trying to limit the number of people who are allowed into the palace in line with COVID-19 regulations. Prince Nhlanganiso Zulu remembers the kind of person his father was. “Isilo loved his family. He taught us to love our children. He was a jovial person. He also loved his livestock.  He taught us to take good care of people.  In the palace, we grew up with people that we didn’t know who they actually are. We would only find out after that person has passed on. Isilo taught us to respect other people.” People from the area, who grew up with the late AmaZulu King, say he also played soccer like other people. Yekayena Mhlongo, an induna in the local tribal court of the King in the Osuthu area, says they went to the same schools. He says the King loved his people. “When he took over he revived some ceremonies like the Reed Dance and Umkhosi Woswela. He referenced to people as my fathers, people which showed respect.  He loved education. He was worried about young people who are using drugs and alcohol. He wanted young people to prioritise education.” #sabcnews #sabckzn Osuthu Tribal Counci induna Yekayena Mhlongo grew up with #KingGoodwillZwelithini says the AmaZulu monarch played soccer and was a good striker. He shared his fond memories. pic.twitter.com/KGuU8JXY6Q — Nonkululeko Hlophe (@Leko3) March 16, 2021  The president of the Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union ( AMCU)  Joseph Mathunjwa has also paid tribute to the late king. He says the late King was always on the side of the workers and the poor. Mathunjwa, accompanied by other union leaders, has spoken to the media at the palace after paying their respect to the royal family. Mathunjwa says the King stood with the workers during the Marikana incident. “He was very vocal about the exploitation experienced by mine workers.  In particular, he was saying the workers must be paid according to their labour. But the manner in which they are treated is not fairly. In particular, the migrant labours, that they come and contribute in this country for the economy but the manner things have been happening  it was not good.” He says the King embraced people from different cultures: 