Human rights organisation,  Africa4Palestine, has expressed disappointment in what it says is Chief Justice Mogoeng Mogoeng’s unwillingness to engage with the group on issues over his comments on Israel. The Judicial Conduct Committee ordered Mogoeng to apologise – following complaints over last year’s comments in a webinar, hosted by The Jerusalem Post – in which he quoted from the Bible and claimed that he was praying for Israel. However, some activist groups accused Mogoeng of making politically motivated statements. “It is unfortunate that the Chief Justice has chosen, what we think, an arrogant, public posture. On the one hand, he is beginning to attack the JSC by questioning the code and on the other, he is not willing to engage on the issues. He is adding, we feel, to the divisions in society over this issue and either actively allowing his supporters to portray a certain narrative which is that the code of conduct filed in violation of his religious belief, but it didn’t – it found him in violation of entering into a political controversy. So we are disappointed that the Chief Justice is seemingly taking this path,” says Muhammed Desai, Africa4Palestine Director. [ON AIR] Chief Justice Mogoeng Mogoeng has reportedly declined to Meet @Africa4Pal over Israel Comments. Muhammed Desai, Director of Africa4Palestine on #SAfmSunrise with @StephenGrootes #sabcnews pic.twitter.com/VvaTNbIr1z — SAfmRadio  (@SAfmRadio) March 23, 2021  ACDP defends Mogoeng The African Christian Democratic Party (ACDP) has meanwhile reiterated its defence of Mogoeng – saying they believe he voiced his religious beliefs and did not violate any constitutional provision. The ACDP held a picket at the Constitutional Court in support of Mogoeng on Monday. The ACDP’s leader, Reverend Kenneth Meshoe, says Africa4Palestine should have first met with Mogoeng to resolve their differences, before taking the matter publically. “If A4P was serious about meeting him halfway, understanding where he was coming from, they should have invited him for a cup of tea before they went public about this matter and gave the matter to the judges to look at it because the matter is now with the judges. It does not make sense to me that after they have said he must be investigated then they want to meet with him. You do not go public after you are public you want to meet and resolve the difference,” says Meshoe. ACDP pickets outside Constitutional Court in support of Chief Justice Mogoeng Mogoeng: 