A legal battle is brewing between the Free State government and scores of families in Harrismith over the right to occupy land and houses. A group of residents known as “Abahlali base Skomplaas” has occupied houses which they claim government built on their ancestral land. Government has escalated the matter to the High Court to evict them. Angry residents say their forefathers were forcefully removed from the land more than 60 years ago. Government developed the land and built houses nine years ago. Residents say the houses stood vacant and were being vandalised. They then occupied them without permission. Community leader, Mbuyiselo Tshabalala, says they are now the rightful owners of the houses. “We are not happy because they never even consult with us. This is our forefathers land. We’ll never go anywhere. We’re going to die inside this Skomplaas. We are the children of our forefathers who are living in this area,” says Tshabalala. From a distance the houses look flawless. But inside, flushing toilets are installed without water and there is no electricity. The roads are also not tarred. Free State government vs Harrismith families:  Another resident, Bongani Mathebula, reacted with fury. “The human settlement never consulted with us. This land belongs to our forefathers. They are now taken us to court saying we have illegally occupied these houses. We said to them let them take their houses and we want our land that belongs to our elders,” says Mathebula. His sentiments were also echoed by another resident, Themba Hlongwane. “What made us raise our concerns is that there were people that claimed the land. A list of those people was sent to Bloemfontein. Bloemfontein sent human settlement officials with a list of people that were not the claimants we asked the HOD (head of department) on what is happening with the list. We asked him why as the grandchildren of this place they can’t give is these houses,” explains Hlongwane. Most of the occupants were born in Harrismith and are unemployed. Free State Human Settlements Department spokesperson, Senne Bogatsu, says they are not backing down in their bid to evict the residents. “All processes for allocation of houses to rightful beneficiaries according to the qualification criteria were followed for the breaking new ground housing units and land restitution houses. We cannot allow the rights of these deserving beneficiaries to be overlooked or trampled upon through forceful occupation of these houses,” says Bogatsu.