Opposition political parties in the Mangaung Metro Municipality in Bloemfontein say the approval of the appointment of an independent investigator is a step in the right direction. This comes after the Democratic Alliance (DA) requested a formal investigation into allegations of misconduct and maladministration against the city manager, Tankiso Mea. The municipality was downgraded twice by ratings agency Moody’s. It was placed under administration in 2018. The DA claims that service delivery in Mangaung continues to deteriorate under the senior management of the municipality. Mangaung DA caucus leader Hardie Viviers says the appointment of an investigator is a victory for the council. “Indeed a victory for the residents of Mangaung for keeping the administration more specifically the administrative head accountable for what we are experiencing currently and the failing of basics service delivery. Going forward we are now waiting for the council meeting to be called where this independent investigator must be appointed. Of course, the Democratic Alliance will give their inputs there, it needs to be a truly independent investigator, it cannot be a cadre deployment, it must be somebody who can do the job properly” The Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) says poor governance has collapsed the municipality. EFF’s Mangaung Chief Whip Paballo Poone says the city manager continued to fail and disrespect the city and council. “The untouchable city manager who seeks to have forgotten that he accounts and answers to the council has in more ways than one continued to fail and disrespect the city and the council. He does not account to anyone or anything.” Residents continue to suffer due to incomplete projects in the city. “We want the municipality to act against the projects that were given and not finished on time. The municipality does not come to us. And does not communicate, they only make empty promises,” says a resident. “There are challenges of incompetence in the municipality. The service delivery is a major challenge, we can see the street, it is just one of the examples,” adds another. SAMWU Mangaung regional chairperson Jimmy Motse says the only solution for the municipality is for the manager to step down. “We still reiterate our position to say city manager must step aside. We did release a media statement around February to say the city manager must step down, we are still holding that position. Our reason is the corruption that is happening in Mangaung, the non-service delivery in Mangaung, the dismissal of our members, illegally so. The illegal appointment of people in higher positions without due processes. Also complaints we had been getting from our members in terms of political interference. And now which city manager is the accounting officer? They do allow political interference to happen in Mangaung.” The municipality says the issue will be dealt with in the council meeting on Tuesday. Municipal spokesperson Qondile Khedama says, “Formally this matter will be sitting in the council meeting on Tuesday and that is where conclusion will be made as to what is the way forward.” The instability in the municipality continues. In August last year, former Mangaung executive mayor Olly Mlamleli was axed through a motion of no confidence.