The author of the world’s largest study on the prevalence of violence against women and girls, says the true figures of the sexual abuse of women and children are likely to be far higher than reported due to the stigma that often falls on the victim instead of the perpetrator. The study conducted in at least 158 countries, found that nearly one in three women worldwide is subjected to physical or sexual violence during her lifetime. Report author Claudia Garcia-Moreno says the violence also starts at a young age in most cases, with one in four adolescent girls aged 15 to 19 having been subjected to either physical or sexual violence in a relationship. Garcia-Moreno says, “Six percent of women and girls globally have been subjected to sexual violence by someone other than their husband or partner. The true prevalence of sexual violence is likely to be much higher while we have seen more women disclosing thanks to movements like ‘ me too ‘ or ‘ stop the blame ‘ and others.” “The issue remains highly stigmatised and many still fear the blame and the repercussions if they speak out,” added Garcia-Moreno. Below is the release of the global study of the prevalence of violence against women: WHO  Nearly one in three women worldwide is subjected to physical or sexual violence during her lifetime, pervasive criminal behaviour that has increased during the pandemic, the World Health Organization (WHO) said on Tuesday. The UN agency urged governments to prevent violence, improve services for victims and tackle economic inequalities that often leave women and girls trapped in abusive relationships. Boys should be taught in school about the need for mutual respect in relationships and mutual consent in sex, WHO officials said. “Violence against women is endemic in every country and culture, causing harm to millions of women and their families, and has been exacerbated by the COVID-19 pandemic,” WHO director-general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said. Some 31% of women aged 15-49, or up to 852 million women, have experienced physical or sexual violence, the WHO said in what it called the largest-ever such study, encompassing national data and surveys from 2000-2018. A husband or intimate partner is the most common perpetrator and a disproportionate number of victims are in the poorest countries, it said. True figures are likely far higher due to under-reporting of sexual abuse, a heavily-stigmatised crime. “These numbers are very shocking and really are sort of a wake-up call for governments to be doing much more to prevent this violence,” Garcia-Moreno said. In some regions, more than half of women face violence at some point, she told Reuters, citing Oceania, sub-Saharan Africa and southern Asia. Countries with the highest prevalence include Kiribati, Fiji, Papua New Guinea, Bangladesh, the Democratic Republic of Congo, and Afghanistan, WHO data show. The lowest rates are in Europe, up to 23%, over a lifetime. Violence starts at an “alarmingly young” age, the WHO said. One in four adolescent girls aged 15-19 who have had a relationship have been subjected to either physical or sexual violence, Garcia-Moreno said. “This is a very important and formative time in life. And we know that the impacts of this violence can be long-lasting and can affect physical and mental health and lead to unwanted pregnancies and other complications,” she said. UN releases a report on violence against women:  Governments can help protect women & their children from violence during #COVID19.
 Incl. violence against women essential services in COVID-19 emergency preparedness & response plans
 Support hotlines, shelters & other specialized services pic.twitter.com/c72toZRrgL — World Health Organization (WHO) (@WHO) March 9, 2021  During the #COVID19 pandemic, risks of violence increase due to:
 More time at home with abusers
 Rising stress
 Isolation from social support networks
 Limited access to critical services https://t.co/XjzTKOKeOT pic.twitter.com/WVWlWZRs5L — World Health Organization (WHO) (@WHO) March 9, 2021  Violence disproportionately affects women living in low- & lower-middle-income countries. ~37% of  in the poorest countries have experienced physical &/or sexual intimate partner violence in their life, with some countries having a prevalence of 50%. https://t.co/XjzTKOKeOT pic.twitter.com/iMm0Vx1Ma7 — World Health Organization (WHO) (@WHO) March 9, 2021  Additional reporting by Reuters.