The Tourism Business Council of South Africa says it expects to see an increase in business following the reopening of five airports for international travel under the adjusted alert Level 1 lockdown. On Sunday, President Cyril Ramaphosa said international travel at OR Tambo, Cape Town, King Shaka, the Kruger Mpumalanga and Lanseria airports will resume under standard COVID-19 infection control measures. The President said while 33 land border posts will remain closed for the time being, the other 20 will continue operating. Tourism Business Council of South Africa’s CEO, Tshifhiwa Tshivengwa, says travelling is essential for the industry to recover.

“You know for us to recover, travelling is essential because our business is travel and we have proven over the past few months that this can be done safely. We do expect that there should be an increased movement of people and we may start to see the signs of recovery and may get even more people back at work, and we do hope that people take advantage at the specials and go out there and take their families out on vacation.” Tshivengwa’s full interview is in the audio clip below:  ‘It’s important for everyone to play their part’ The country’s curfew has now been relaxed to start from midnight to 4am. Alcohol sales are permitted under the normal trading hours. Sales during curfew hours remain banned. Gatherings are permitted, with 100 people inside and 250 outside venues. The Restaurants Association of South Africa (Rasa) has welcomed the move. The association’s CEO, Wendy Alberts, says it’s important for everyone to play their part in observing the lockdown restrictions. “This is not only for restaurants to play their part, the public needs to play their part, we can’t see this as a ticket to freedom. We have to see this as another level of moving through the stages to bring economic relief. We don’t want to be landing back in a position we were in, in December, where we were shut down. It’s important we keep the protocols up that we play by the regulations, we all do our part to slow down the curve, and do what we need to do to keep the industry open,” Alberts explains. She elaborates on her views in the clip below:  President Ramaphosa announces a move to level one:  Lockdown level 1: