President Cyril Ramaphosa says the country will remain on Level 1 of the COVID-19 lockdown over the Easter holidays with adjusted restrictions. The sale of alcohol for offsite consumption will be prohibited from Easter Friday to Monday, while the curfew remains the same from midnight to 4am. On-site sale of alcohol at restaurants, shebeens and bars allowed, according to licensing conditions, up until 11pm. Ramaphosa made the announcement from the Union Buildings in Pretoria on Tuesday evening. The President says over the last few days, the National Coronavirus Command Council has sought the advice of experts and consulted with representatives of provincial and local government as well as traditional leaders on what measures that should be put in place over the coming long weekend to prevent a new outbreak of infections. It is through the advice that the NCCC it was decided to keep the country under Level 1:  President Ramaphosa also paid tribute to legendary news anchor Noxolo Grootboom, who presented her last bulletin this evening after 37 years. “I wish to pay tribute to Miss Grootboom as an outstanding journalist who throughout her 37 years of distinguished service bought historic events in our country and across the world into the living rooms our nation. We wish Miss Grootboom well and thank her for her many years’ service.” The President’s tribute is in the video below:  Vaccine rollout Ramaphosa says for the past two weeks, the number of new COVID-19 cases has remained relatively stable at around 1 200 new cases per day. The President says the country has also seen a decline in the number of hospitalisations as well as deaths, having recorded a recovery rate slightly higher than 95%. “This is thanks to the collective efforts of all South Africans who have abided by the restrictions that have been in place since March last year to protect lives. It is also a testament to the high degree of vigilance we have continued to observe as a country with regards to monitoring, testing, contact tracing and preventive measures,” says Ramaphosa. He says the country’s vaccination programme is gaining momentum, with 50 000 health workers have to date received the Johnson & Johnson vaccine as part of the Sisonke trial. The President says the country has secured the following vaccines: Phase 2 of vaccination is scheduled to start in mid-May. High-risk people will be a priority. Ramaphosa urged people to register for Phase 2 of vaccination. “The second phase of the COVID-19 vaccination programme aims to ensure that we will protect our communities, prevent health services from being overwhelmed and reduce the need for lockdowns that seriously disrupt education, the economy and each one of our lives. Registration to be vaccinated is scheduled to start in April. People will be encouraged to register on-line, but those without on-line access will be able to register in person,” he says. The President has urged people to continue wearing masks, observing social distancing, sanitising and washing hands to curb the spread of COVID-19. Reaction to President Ramaphosa’s Easter weekend restrictions:  Last week, experts advised government to put the country under a stricter lockdown level for the Easter weekend. They further warned that a third wave of coronavirus infections could hit South Africa after the holiday period.