Twenty-four students of the University of the Free State who were arrested yesterday for blocking the road during student protest have been released on warning in the Bloemfontein Magistrate’s Court. The case has been postponed to 23 April for further investigation. The students were arrested during a protest over registration challenges at the university. They blockaded the busy Nelson Mandela Drive near the campus. They have been charged with contravention of the Road Traffic Act and the Gatherings Act. The students complained about being unable to register, while others are still awaiting a response from the National Student Financial Aid Scheme. Deputy President of the Student Representative Council at the University of Free State Agobakwe Mboweni says they are disappointed by the way the management of the institution is handling the situation. “We are very disappointed that the university has called security forces on campus whereby students just want to register. That is the only thing that students want. Students want an extension of registration. ” 24  #UFS arrested students have been released on warning and free bail. They will be back in court on the 23 April. Students vow to intensify their protest until all deserving students are able to register.#sabcnews#sabcfs#UFSREGISTRATION pic.twitter.com/43UAL2hR6N — Aphumelele Mdlalane (@AphumeleleMdla2) March 12, 2021  Mboweni has also called for all academic processes to be halted. ” We know that the academic plan is always unfair. What about students who are not registered right now. What is going to happen to them? What is going to happen to those that are going to register within a week?  There is inequality in the education system that is very disappointing. ” He says everyone should be included before academic processes continue. Students arrived at the court in solidarity with those arrested:  The government yesterday announced additional funding for the National Student Financial Aid Scheme (NSFAS) to address the funding shortfall for the 2021 academic year. In a briefing, Higher Education Minister Blade Nzimande said they have agreed to prioritise funding for all deserving first-year students:  