President Cyril Ramaphosa has arrived in the United Republic of Tanzania for the official State Funeral of the late President John Pombe Magufuli. His Excellency President @CyrilRamaphosa arrives in Dodoma Airport, United Republic of Tanzania for the official State Funeral of the late President of #Tanzania His Excellency Dr John Pombe Joseph Magufuli taking place at Jamhuri Stadium in Dodoma. pic.twitter.com/BCK3m189K1 — Presidency | South Africa  (@PresidencyZA) March 22, 2021  SABC’s Isaac Lukando updates on the State Funeral:  Magufuli passed away last Wednesday in a Dar es Salaam hospital at the age of 61. The government says he died of heart-related complications. Magufuli is expected to be buried on Friday. His Former Vice-President Samia Suluhu Hassan has been inaugurated as his successor. Magufuli took office in 2015 on a ticket of anti-corruption after serving for many years in various cabinet portfolios. Tanzania mourns the passing of President John Magufuli:  Tributes In South Africa, the African National Congress (ANC) said with the passing of Magufuli, the party has lost a dedicated and loyal friend. The ANC said Magufuli will be remembered for his tireless efforts in expanding free education, rural electrification, and infrastructure development in the East African country. COPE joined other political parties in passing condolences to the people of Tanzania. “It is always a devastating blow to any country to lose its president; we mourn with the people of Tanzania. We will never forget the contribution the Tanzanians have made towards our own liberation in this country. We pass our condolences to the people of Tanzania and we are saying may his soul rest in peace,” COPE’s National Spokesperson Dennis Bloem said. The EFF lauded Magufuli for his Afro-centricism, saying he sought to build Tanzania outside of the overbearing scope of the Western world and its influence. The party said Magufuli lead his country with commitment, humility and always urged peaceful co-existence amongst his people. SA political parties send messages of support in honour of President Magufuli:  Magufuli’s response to COVID-19 President Magufuli was admired by followers for his hostility to corruption and waste. He was, however, regarded by foes as an irascible authoritarian intolerant of dissent. He was nicknamed “The Bulldozer” for his fondness for massive public works and a reputation for pushing through policies despite opposition; a hard-charging leadership style that won support from many Tanzanians. But he also attracted criticism at home and abroad for what opponents saw as his eccentric handling of the coronavirus pandemic. Mangufuli decried lockdowns, was sceptical of COVID-19 drugs and suggested vaccines may be part of a foreign plot to steal Africa’s wealth. “Vaccines are not good. If they were, then the white man would have brought vaccines for HIV/AIDS,” he said. Tanzania’s John Magufuli urges caution over COVID-19 vaccine:  The Tanzanian government stopped reporting statistics for new cases and deaths in May 2020 when it had registered 509 cases and 21 deaths. Magufuli had questioned COVID-19 testing kits, which he said had returned positive results on a goat and pawpaw fruit. He declared the pandemic over and reopened the economy. Magufuli’s approach caused alarm at the World Health Organisation, prompting its head to implore Tanzania to improve public health measures, prepare to distribute vaccines and start reporting coronavirus cases and sharing data.