The South African National Editors Forum (Sanef) has hailed the late broadcaster and journalist Karima Brown as a truth seeker whose contribution to the field of journalism was remarkable. Brown died of COVID-19 related complications on Friday morning after a lengthy stay in a Johannesburg hospital. In a statement issued by the family – they say Brown will be laid to rest in a private burial ceremony which will be held in accordance with Islamic rites and traditions. Sanef’s Mary Papaya says, “It’s absolutely devastating. Karima has a proud history of contribution to our industry and she gave so much, such a larger-than-life individual who questioned so much, shone the light on so much.” “Well researched, focused on issues with such passion and tenacity. It’s quite sad for the industry as a whole. If you look at her brave battle, it was a long stay in hospital and I think that many people thought, being the fighter she was, she would definitely pull through,” adds Papaya. Tributes to Brown Brown’s former and current colleagues took to Twitter to express their sadness. Politicians also took the opportunity to send their heartfelt condolence to Brown’s family, friends and colleagues. Former Cape Times Editor and colleague, Ryland Fisher, says she will be missed. “She was a formidable journalist, a strong woman and a much-needed voice in the journalism community. Karima was even driven by a commitment and a passion for the poorest of the poor in our country and she always wanted her journalism to assist with the upliftment of our people and helping to change our society,” says Fisher. In the video below, Fisher speaks about the role of Brown in the media industry:  Brown anchored eNCA’s weekly show ‘The Fix’ and was also a regular political commentator on the channel. Below are some of the messages: I’d like to send my condolences to Karima Brown’s family..especially her son and brother Zain. To her many friends and colleagues, the journalism fraternity, I am sorry for your loss. I wish you fortitude & courage as you deal with this blow. — Redi Tlhabi (@RediTlhabi) March 4, 2021   Karima Brown succumbs to COVID19. May her soul rest in peace. — Bulelani Phillip (@BulelaniPhillip) March 4, 2021   eNCA is reporting that journalist and broadcaster Karima Brown has died from Covid-19. She had been in hospital on a ventilator fighting the virus. My thoughts with her family and her colleagues. May her memory be for a blessing. #KarimaBrown — Mandy Wiener (@MandyWiener) March 4, 2021   My deepest condolences to Karima Brown’s family following the news of her passing. She was courageous, bold and incredibly fearless. May her soul rest in peace. — Cathy Mohlahlana (@CathyMohlahlana) March 4, 2021   Ms Karima Brown’s passing is sudden and heartbreaking. She was a brilliant journalist and now broadcaster. Sending my deepest condolences to her family, her friends and colleagues. South African media has lost one of its loudest voice – I’ll miss our robust engagements. pic.twitter.com/kYXd7Ujz22 — Minister of Transport |Mr Fix (@MbalulaFikile) March 4, 2021   This is sad news indeed. I would like to extend my condolences to the family of Karima Brown and to her work colleagues. May her soul Rest In Peace . https://t.co/SDSls4HXkn — Mmusi Maimane (@MmusiMaimane) March 4, 2021   We join the nation in mourning the passing of veteran journalist Karima Brown. Her contribution to the journalistic profession & fearlessness in carrying out her job will sorely be missed. Our deepest condolences to the Brown family, her friends and colleagues. #RIPKarimaBrown  pic.twitter.com/j9xcs7Bxvi — Khumbudzo Ntshavheni (@Khu_Ntshavheni) March 4, 2021   God has gained a fierce, powerful woman who stood for accountability & hard-hitting journalism. Karima Brown was my cheer leader when I challenged politicians about corruption & poor service delivery. We’ll continue to push hard, in honour of what Karima stood for. RIP #eNCA — Shahan Ramkissoon (@ShahanR) March 4, 2021 