The Democratic Alliance in the eThekwini Metro says a prolonged inability by the African National Congress (ANC) to fill the vacant position of deputy mayor will compromise the functioning of the municipality. The position became vacant last month after the resignation of Belinda Scott after two years in office. Scott was redeployed to the municipality in late in 2019. She was the Finance MEC in KwaZulu-Natal when the ANC moved her to the metro. The DA’s eThekwini Caucus Chief Whip, Thabani Mthethwa, says the position should be filled in the next council meeting. “Understanding the former deputy mayor’s last day in office was end of February, we would then expect the ANC to make sure that during the council meeting of this month of March, we make sure that we fill that vacant because that is such a senior position. If it remains vacant, it will impact on the delivery of services to the people of eThekwini. We do understand though that there are serious infighting among the ANC as to who should come in or who should not come in,” says Mthethwa. The ANC in the province says it has begun with a process to look for Scott’s replacement. Provincial ANC Spokesperson, Nhlakanipho Ntombela, says they are yet to decide if Scott’s replacement should be a sitting councillor or someone from outside the council. “Latest, before the end of the month, we are starting. The ANC will announce on the suitable candidate for deputy mayorship position of eThekwini. As you all understand that (this is) the only metro we are having in the province, so it will take time to analyze properly in the council and outside, who can be the best suited to take the responsibility. We look into a number of as you would have noticed that when we made changes in eThekwini, we did not only look within those who were councillors, we even went outside to say how can we complement those who were within. So, we will also do the same, to say among us who is best suited.” Pic Credit: supplied. #sabcnews #sabckzn EThekwini municipality remains mum about the sudden resignation of its Deputy Mayor Belinda Scott. Mayor Mxolisi Kaunda confirmed today his Deputy resignation in an executive committee meeting. Scott previously served as Finance Mec pic.twitter.com/eJRtVAHHar — Nonkululeko Hlophe (@Leko3) February 23, 2021 