New Democratic Alliance (DA) leader in KwaZulu-Natal, Francois Rodgers, says his main focus will be seeking unity in the party. Rodgers was victorious at the DA’s elective conference in Durban. He has served as the party’s chief whip in the KZN legislature and now takes over from Zwakhele Mncwango. Francois Rodgers has been elected as the new DA KZN Provincial Leader.#DAKZNCongress#DAKZNCelebratingGrowth pic.twitter.com/Pq8TgHOUCA — DA KZN (@DA_KZN) March 27, 2021   Rodgers beat the party’s eThekwini caucus leader Nicole Graham and her deputy, Emmanuel Mhlongo, in the race for the top spot. Dean Macpherson has been elected as the party’s provincial chairperson. DA KZN leadership contest set for a three-horse race:  Rodgers also worked as a councillor in Kokstad and says this is the first time a leader from the rural parts of KZN has taken over the provincial leadership of the DA. South Africa is expected to go to the polls in local and provincial government elections later this year. Rodgers says he’ll work to bring DA members together. “I think this congress is one of the most mature congresses we’ve ever had and it shows signs that, in fact, divisions are not as big as they were in the past. I think that there are certain forces that work against the leadership in the province. I don’t believe it manifests itself in huge factions, but more in individual personalities. That’s something that I would look forward to addressing.” Mncwango pleased with outcome Mncwango says he’s pleased with the outcome and has asked members to trust the elective process. “Yeah, I’m excited. Look, it’s obvious I made my support clear during the campaign. But again, we must respect the outcomes of democracy because all these leaders were not appointed. They were elected by the conference and we must appreciate that the conference has made a decision as to who they want in leadership. So I am excited.” While delivering his report at the provincial elective congress, Mncwango earlier spoke out about the challenges he faced in the party since his election in 2018. “Imagine the frustration I went through for the past six years and I don’t wish anyone to go through such a painful experience. Every year, there was an investigation about me. Some people, every year, made sure that they collude and fabricate allegations against me. I never had a privilege to enjoy support from national leadership like other provincial leaders, but I kept going and strong,” he said.