Wits University has extended its condolences to the family of a 35-year-old man who died in Braamfontein CBD, outside the institution on Wednesday morning. This after police fired rubber bullets at Wits University’s protesting students at the Braamfontein campus. Students have threatened to continue their protest on Wednesday over the financial exclusion of students The University says it condemns any form of violence and calls on all people to keep calm. In a statement, the University outlines its understanding of the situation as follows: (1/2) STATEMENT: Wits University is deeply saddened to learn of the passing of a 35-year-old man in the Braamfontein CBD outside of the institution this morning. The University extends its condolences to the family of the deceased. FULL STATEMENT: https://t.co/SzBMOaI4eR — Wits University (@WitsUniversity) March 10, 2021  Wits University says that if it continues to accept students who have historical debt, the institution will become financially unsustainable. The university says it is owed R1 billion in outstanding fees accumulated over the past seven years. Wits University says it has made available R20 million for students who are facing financial hardship and R100 million has been allocated to financial aid through bursaries and scholarships. Wits University Spokesperson, Shirona Patel, says the so-called missing middle remains a challenge. “These are students who have accumulated debt because they cannot pay and they do not quality for NSFAS. (They) accumulated debt over the years. If we continue to accept students with this historical debt it means that the university will become financially unsustainable. “We do not want to be bailed out by government. We want to be a financially sustainable organisation. Yes, we want to keep the doors open for as many people as possible, but we do have limited resources. What this means is calling on the private sector and public sector to support those students in the missing middle,” explains Patel. One student arrested, several others injured after police fired rubber bullets:  Political parties reactions Some political parties have reacted to the ongoing protests at Wits University. The EFF has strongly condemned the killing of a civilian during protests by Wits students in Braamfontein. The EFF says since the Fees Must Fall campaign, government has made no plans to sustain funding for higher education. The party has called for the arrest of the police officers who were involved in the shooting of students. EFF Spokesperson Vuyani Pambo:  DA Shadow Minister of Education Chantal King says universities must allow students to register because they should be considerate of the fact that many parents lost their jobs during the COVID-19. COPE’ Spokesperson Dennis Bloem: 