Chief Justice Mogoeng Mogoeng is set to appeal the Judicial Conduct Committee’s (JCC) ruling that he apologise for Pro-Isreali comments made during a webinar in 2020. A number of groups including Africa4Palestine lodged separate complaints to the JCC about the webinar hosted by the Jerusalem Post, during which the Chief Justice quoted a number of  Bible verses, saying as a Christian they made it impossible for him to be opposed to the state of Israel. Chief Justice Mogoeng Mogoeng ordered to apologise for pro-Israel comments:   The Chief Justice went further saying that South Africa should be open to looking at its International Relations policy broadly on the Middle East crisis and consider playing a bridging role between the Israelis and Palestinians. “Have we cut ties with our previous colonisers? Have we embarked on a disinvestment campaign against those who have been responsible for unknown suffering in South Africa and the continent of Africa? Did Israel take our land? Did Israel take the mineral wealth of South Africa and Africa? So, we have to move from principle here. We have got to have a broader perspective and say we know what it means to suffer and to be made to suffer. But we have always had this spirit of generosity, this spirit of forgiveness, this spirit of building bridges,” said the Chief Justice. Reaction to Chief Justice Mogoeng Mogoeng’s comments on Israel:  The committee ordered Mogoeng to retract his statements and issue an apology for the utterances, which complainants found to be pro-Israel and anti-Palestine. Disappointment at Mogoeng’s decision to appeal The organisation Africa4Palestine has expressed disappointment at the Chief Justice’s decision to appeal, and added in a statement that they remain confident that the appeals process will reach the same conclusion. The group says despite formally requesting meetings with Mogoeng, they have not received acknowledgement or response from his office. The JCC says it will determine a date for the appeal, which will be heard by at least three committee members.