Two suspects aged 32 and 41, who allegedly shot and killed a police officer over the weekend, will appear before Tshilwavhusiku Magistrate’s Court outside Louis Trichardt in Limpopo on Monday. Constable Rabelani Charity Netshivhambe was shot during confrontation with suspects at a business robbery at Maebani village outside Louis Trichardt. Police Spokesperson Brenda Muridili says Netshivhambe  and his colleague were attending to a complaint at a spaza shop on Saturday evening, when they  chased the suspects. “Two men accused of killing constable Rabelani Charity Netshivhambe on 26 March 2021, while him and his partner were tracing suspect link to a spate of business robbery which occurred that evening, will be appearing this morning at Tshilwavhusiku Magistrate’s Court. The Constable and his partner, a sergeant, were called out to compliant of business robberies, which occurred at four different places where in two suspects had robbed spaza shop owners.” 15-year-old to appear for 11-year-old murder Meanwhile, the 15-year-old boy arrested for allegedly killing an 11-year-old will appear before Seshego Magistrate’s Court outside Polokwane, Limpopo also on Monday. It’s alleged that Tebane Mahanyele was lured by the suspect from same village to a soccer match and he did not return home. The family then reported him missing last week. His body was found in the following day in the neighbouring village of Ga-Makweya, which is about one kilometer from his home village of Ga-Mamadila outside Polokwane. Police say preliminary investigations found that Tebani might have been strangled. 1 400 suspects have been arrested in Limpopo Limpopo police say over 1 400 suspects have been arrested for various offences including murder, theft and possession of suspected stolen vehicles this weekend. Police Spokesperson Moatshe Ngoepe says seven suspected stolen vehicles were recovered. He says a truck traveling from Gauteng province to Malawi was loaded with dissembled suspected stolen motor bikes at the Beitbridge Border Post in Musina. Ngoepe says, “1 473 suspects were arrested for various offense ranges from burglaries possession for stolen properties. A number of items were recovered that include counterfeit cigarettes and various drugs. Seven suspected stolen cars, nine illegal firearms and ammunition and extra.”