Broadcaster and journalist Karima Brown has been described as a woman with a heart of gold who grew talent within the media industry. Brown was laid to rest Thursday afternoon at West Park Cemetery in Johannesburg. She died of COVID-19-related complications in hospital on Thursday morning. Former colleague at SAfm, John Perlman says Brown demanded only the best and treated her team with respect. “As a journalist, Karima had a fierce dedication to getting to the bottom of stories. She never accepted easy answers. She was never afraid of difficult debates. As a manager, Karima was an incredible person. Tough as a nail, but as a person, she had a heart of gold (cries). The message she sent was that we are not here to be liked, we are here to be respected.” Former Cape Times Editor and colleague, Ryland Fisher, says she will be missed. “She was a formidable journalist, a strong woman and a much-needed voice in the journalism community. “Karima was even driven by a commitment and a passion for the poorest of the poor in our country and she always wanted her journalism to assist with the upliftment of our people and helping to change our society,” says Fisher. The Executive Director of UN Women, Dr Phumzile Mlambo-Ngcuka, has joined prominent South Africans in expressing sadness at the passing of veteran journalist Karima Brown. In the video below, friends, colleagues pay tributes to Karima:  Below are some tributes: I’d like to send my condolences to Karima Brown’s family..especially her son and brother Zain. To her many friends and colleagues, the journalism fraternity, I am sorry for your loss. I wish you fortitude & courage as you deal with this blow. — Redi Tlhabi (@RediTlhabi) March 4, 2021   Karima Brown succumbs to COVID19. May her soul rest in peace. — Bulelani Phillip (@BulelaniPhillip) March 4, 2021   eNCA is reporting that journalist and broadcaster Karima Brown has died from Covid-19. She had been in hospital on a ventilator fighting the virus. My thoughts with her family and her colleagues. May her memory be for a blessing. #KarimaBrown — Mandy Wiener (@MandyWiener) March 4, 2021   My deepest condolences to Karima Brown’s family following the news of her passing. She was courageous, bold and incredibly fearless. May her soul rest in peace. — Cathy Mohlahlana (@CathyMohlahlana) March 4, 2021   Ms Karima Brown’s passing is sudden and heartbreaking. She was a brilliant journalist and now broadcaster. Sending my deepest condolences to her family, her friends and colleagues. South African media has lost one of its loudest voice – I’ll miss our robust engagements. pic.twitter.com/kYXd7Ujz22 — Minister of Transport |Mr Fix (@MbalulaFikile) March 4, 2021   This is sad news indeed. I would like to extend my condolences to the family of Karima Brown and to her work colleagues. May her soul Rest In Peace . https://t.co/SDSls4HXkn — Mmusi Maimane (@MmusiMaimane) March 4, 2021   We join the nation in mourning the passing of veteran journalist Karima Brown. Her contribution to the journalistic profession & fearlessness in carrying out her job will sorely be missed. Our deepest condolences to the Brown family, her friends and colleagues. #RIPKarimaBrown  pic.twitter.com/j9xcs7Bxvi — Khumbudzo Ntshavheni (@Khu_Ntshavheni) March 4, 2021   God has gained a fierce, powerful woman who stood for accountability & hard-hitting journalism. Karima Brown was my cheer leader when I challenged politicians about corruption & poor service delivery. We’ll continue to push hard, in honour of what Karima stood for. RIP #eNCA — Shahan Ramkissoon (@ShahanR) March 4, 2021 