The leadership for the Democratic Alliance (DA) in Limpopo is going to be hotly contested during the party’s provincial congress on March 20th. The current leader, Jacques Smalle will contest the provincial leadership position with DA MP Solly Malatsi. The provincial congress will be held in a hybrid system where some delegates will be at the venue in Polokwane while others will attend through Zoom. Under Alert Level 1, political gatherings are permitted, albeit with limited number. The maximum number of people allowed at any gathering is 100 people indoors or 250 people outdoors. Where the venue is too small to accommodate these numbers with appropriate social distancing, then no more than 50% of the capacity of the venue may be used. In Limpopo, the DA will hold its congress on the 2oth of March. The party’s presiding officer, Refiloe Nt’sekhe says preparations are well under way. “The Democratic Alliance in Limpopo is ready to host the provincial elective congress which will be held on the 20th of March 2021. Everything is ready to comply with the COVID- 19 regulations to ensure that we are social distancing and everything is complied with. We believe that this will be a successful election and everything is going to run smoothly because the preparations are watertight.” Nt’sekhe also says that lockdown regulations such as social distancing will be adhered to, adding that some delegates will be at the venue while others will participate on Zoom. “This congress will be held in a hybrid system where some people will attend via zoom and other members will be attending in person those who will be attending in person the party is making sure that there will be enough space for social distancing and ensure that there’s enough sanitising for everyone who’s attending.” The incumbent, Smalle is a Member of the Provincial Legislature and Deputy Federal Chairperson. DA MP and former spokesperson Malatsi will also contest to lead the party in the province. Last year, DA in the Western Cape held its 2020 Provincial Congress amid the COVID-19 pandemic.