Judgment has been reserved at the Polokwane High court in Limpopo in the kidnap, rape and murder case of a 19-year-old man. Dimakatso Mochemi allegedly kidnapped and raped a 14-year-old girl in 2019 and stabbed to death 18-year-old Thoriso Kgomo in Seshego last year. He is a member of a gang called “Burial 13” that terrorised the community. Community members of Seshego went on the rampage and assaulted suspected gang members after Kgomo’s killing. Mochemi, commonly known as King Buda, looked calm conducting his own defence in court. He cross examined witnesses as he did not have a legal representative. Two of his lawyers withdrew their services during trial. After the state closed its case, Mochemi was asked to call any witness to cross-examine. He only asked questions related to the clothes he was wearing during the day Thoriso was stabbed. He claimed he was not wearing the clothes witnesses said he was. He maintained he acted in self- defence, alleging Kgomo had taken his cap and threatened to stab him with a knife. The state indicated the accused intentionally stabbed Kgomo four times. The  state also says Kgomo was already down at his weakest point, on his knees grabbing the accused leg to get a balance to stand up when Mochemi stabbed him four times. He told Judge Gerrit Muller that he stabbed Kgomo inside the hall not outside as testified by some witnesses. Concerning the rape of a 14-year-old, he maintained it was a consensual intercourse. He says he indulged in a rough sexual intercourse hence the victim’s artificial ear pieces were found on the floor inside the room where the alleged rape took place. The state described Mochemi as a dishonest person who often contradicts himself. Spokesperson of the Seshego Community Against Crime and Gangsterism, Mapula Thema, says the court should convict Mochemi. “My wish is for the judge to give that boy a harsher sentence even if he can give him life I will be happy and even the family will be happy. The burial 13 gang used to terrorise the community but now I think it has ease but we are still on it we are trying to clean Seshego so that it will become a safe community.” Thoriso’s father, Lawrence Kgomo ,also wish the accused can get a maximum sentence. He says its painful to see that the accused does not show any remorse in court. “We are just asking for justice to prevail, we believe in the judge if the accused can get a maximum sentence I think my self, my kids, my family and everyone who was touched by this incident we will all be happy.” The case was postponed to Tuesday for judgment.