No matter how the world situation changes, China’s willingness to develop the China-Iran relations will not change, Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi said on Saturday during his meeting with Iranian President Hassan Rouhani. Wang conveyed Chinese President Xi Jinping’s cordial greetings and wishes for the Iranian New Year to Rouhani, and thanked the Iranian side for its warm and thoughtful reception to the Chinese delegation during the Nowruz, or Iranian New Year. The Chinese foreign minister said that the China-Iran comprehensive strategic partnership has withstood the test of changes in the international situation. Noting that this year marks the 50th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between the two countries, Wang said the document of comprehensive cooperation signed by the two sides on Saturday will map out an overall blueprint for boosting the China-Iran comprehensive strategic partnership, which will not only benefit the two peoples, but also make China-Iran contributions to maintaining regional and world peace. China, Wang said, firmly supports Iran in defending its national sovereignty and dignity, and safeguarding its chosen development path. No matter in the past, at present or in future, China is consistent in opposing the unreasonable unilateral sanctions imposed on Iran by other countries, because they violate the international law, especially those based on lies and false information, which are immoral and unpopular and constitute an affront to human conscience, Wang said. China stands ready to work with Iran and other countries to jointly oppose the acts of bullying by powers, uphold international equity and justice, and defend the basic norms of international relations, the Chinese diplomat said. Wang pointed out that it is time to seriously reflect on the bad consequences inflicted on the region by external interferences, and work together to explore effective ways to maintain long-term regional security and stability. He said that the core of China’s five-point initiative to achieve security and stability in the Middle East is to call on regional countries to uphold the sense of ownership, carry forward the spirit of independence, get rid of the interference of geopolitical competition, seek development paths suitable for the national conditions of regional countries, and establish a security framework in line with the interests of these countries. China is willing to work with regional countries to this end, he added. For his part, Rouhani asked Wang to convey his sincere greetings and best wishes to President Xi. The Iranian president said that all walks of life in his country regard China as Iran’s most important partner. Recalling Xi’s successful visit to Iran in 2016, Rouhani said it has promoted the remarkable development of the Iran-China relations. The signing of the comprehensive cooperation document between the two countries will further clarify the roadmap for future cooperation between the two countries, Rouhani said.