The Independent Police Investigative Directorate (IPID) has gathered important evidence to proceed with its investigations into the circumstances that led to the death of Mthokizisi Ntumba (35). Ntumba was shot and killed, allegedly by police, during the Wits student protest on Wednesday in Braamfontein Johannesburg. It is believed that Ntumba was not part of the protest and had just visited a local clinic when he was killed. Two student journalists were also shot and wounded and have been admitted to the Milpark Hospital. Students at the university are demanding that their counterparts with historical debt be allowed to register. IPID spokesperson Ndileka Cola says, “The IPID investigation team is working around the clock processing voluminous evidence gathered at the crime scene… The directorate has managed to confiscate firearms and the same will be taken for ballistic analysis. The post mortem to determine the actual cause of death will be conducted later this week and the family liaison has been done and continues to be done by IPID.” IPID investigating Mthokozisi Ntumba’s death as a result of police action:  Cele visits the home of Mthokozisi Ntumba Police Minister Bheki Cele visited Ntmba’s family in Kempton Park earlier today and spoke to the media afterward. “He’s a young man. I saw his photo. He was working for the Department of Human Settlements and has just gained his Master’s degree. He’s a father of three, he’s got a young wife. I think his youngest son is just a year old. It’s a sad issue.” “It’s a sad situation to look at. It’s something that you can’t really even be able to live with as a human being now, taking all other elements of life out,” says Cele. In the video below, Police Minister Bheki Cele says there is no explanation for the killing of Mthokozisi Ntumba:  The South African Federation of Trade Unions (Saftu) marched to the Johannesburg Police Station on Thursday morning to protest against police brutality. The trade union federation says it supports Wits students who are fighting cuts to the education budget and the exclusion of students who cannot register due to financial hardship. SAFTU marches against police brutality: 