The South African Communist Party (SACP) says all members of the tripartite alliance should adhere to the decision of the African National Congress’s (ANC) National Executive Committee (NEC) that members charged with corruption or other serious crimes must step aside within 30 days or face suspension. The SACP says the move will go a long way in clamping down on state capture and other forms of corruption. SACP’s First Deputy General-Secretary Solly Mapaila says the alliance and more importantly, the governing party can now start to shift its focus on its true mandate to serve the people. “We are very excited that finally, the ANC has seen the light they decided to implement this resolution, it can now reclaim its authority as an organisation and therefore begin to focus on the issues affecting society rather than dealing with unending internal wrangles. All members of the tripartite alliance because we are all connected to the ANC it will affect all of us this resolution.” SACP welcomes the ANC decision to implement to ‘step aside’ policy:  Magashule respects NEC decision ANC Secretary General Ace Magashule says he respects and has accepted the decision of the ANC NEC for him to step down. Magashule and 14 others are facing corruption allegations in the Bloemfontein Regional Court relating to the asbestos housing project in the Free State while he was premier. Speaking to the media in Soweto Magashule also dispelled suggestions that he would leave the ANC and form his own party. He says he will remain ANC member until he dies. On Monday the governing party’s highest decision-making body instructed all members facing criminal charges to step-aside within 30 days or face suspension. ANC president Cyril Ramaphosa has warned the so-called Radical Economic Transformation (RET) campaigners to refrain from embarking on factional campaigns. “The NEC condemned the establishment of groups operating as an organised faction within the ANC to undermine the ideological and organisational integrity of the ANC. The meeting agreed that no ANC member should associate themselves with or be involved in the so-called ‘RET Forces’. Furthermore, the NEC will not allow any member of the ANC staff to use the resources and premises of the ANC to hold meetings of the RET or any other faction,” added Ramaphosa. In the video below, political analyst Sanusha Naidoo unpacks ANC NEC meeting:  Although Magashule initially resisted stepping aside, the party’s president says he has now opted to seek advice from past leaders. “The NEC welcomed the decision by the ANC Secretary-General, Cde Ace Magashule, to use this time to seek the counsel of past leaders of the movement and the ANC supports our Secretary-General in this effort,” said Ramaphosa.  