The African National Congress (ANC) says with the passing of Tanzanian President John Magufuli, the party has lost a dedicated and loyal friend. In a statement, the party says the East African country’s governing party Chama Cha Mapinduzi has been the ANC’s trusted friend for many decades supporting South Africa’s liberation struggle. The ANC says Magufuli will be remembered for his tireless efforts in expanding free education, rural electrification, and infrastructure development in the East African country. @MYANC mourns the passing of the President of Tanzania, Mr John Magufuli. #RIPPresidentMagufuli pic.twitter.com/ToKUPGbbrX — African National Congress (@MYANC) March 18, 2021  The Congress of the People  (COPE) has joined other political parties in passing condolences to the people of Tanzania. Magafuli took office in 2015 on a ticket of anti-corruption after serving for many years in various cabinet portfolios. “It is always a devastating blow to any country to lose its president; we mourn with the people of Tanzania. We will never forget the contribution the Tanzanians have made towards our own liberation in this country. We pass our condolences to the people of Tanzania and we are saying may his soul rest in peace,” says COPE’s National Spokesperson Dennis Bloem. The Economic Freedom Fighters has lauded Tanzanian President Magufuli for his Afro-centricism, saying he sought to build Tanzania outside of the overbearing scope of the Western world and its influence. The party in a brief statement says Magufuli lead his country with commitment, humility and always urged peaceful co-existence amongst his people. It says he was a strong proponent of anti-corruption and was passionate about development in Tanzania particularly education and infrastructure growth to modernise the east-African nation. EFF Statement On The Passing Of President Of Tanzania , His Excellency John Magufuli pic.twitter.com/BhjTEj9A4C — Economic Freedom Fighters (@EFFSouthAfrica) March 18, 2021  Heads of state from around the continent have also sent their condolences: 