Residents of Nkandla in Northern KwaZulu-Natal say they are sad they will not be able to attend the memorial service of the late Amazulu King Goodwill Zwelithini KaBhekuzulu. Nkandla has rich historical links with the Royal family through Inkosi Sgananda Shezi who served four AmaZulu kings. The grave of King Zwelithini’s great-great-grandfather King Cetshwayo lies in the Nkandla forest. Nkandla is popularly known today as home to former President Jacob Zuma. Historically the area has connections with Amazulu kings. Late local chief Inkosi Sgananda Shezi served four kings, Shaka, Dingane, Mpande and Cetshwayo. Sgananda harboured King Cetshwayo at Nkandla forest where he died and was buried. An informal trader at the town of Nkandla Mbongeleni Ngubane says he wants this history of AmaZulu kings and Inkosi Sgananda Shezi preserved. “It’s sad that the history of King Cetshwayo is not preserved well here, where he is buried. It’s also sad that some of the items next to his grave disappeared.” Residents say they feel connected to the AmaZulu royal family and are hurt that they cannot travel to Nongoma to bid farewell to the King. King Goodwill Zwelithini passed on last Friday, his memorial service will be held under COVID-19 regulations. A resident Ntozakhe Zondi says it’s sad that they can’t go and pay condolences. “We loved our king as he was the only king we have known during our time and it’s sad that he left us. King Goodwill unveiled King Cetshwayo Monument at Nkandla in 1980 – 96 years after the death of the king. The Nkandla municipality has organised public viewing for Thursday’s memorial service of king Goodwill Zwelithini. The video below shows proceedings at Nongoma:  COVID-19 protocols Health Minister, Dr Zweli Mkhize, has outlined the health protocols that are in place as mourners gather ahead of the burial.   Mkhize has called on mourners to adhere to COVID-19 health protocols. “Everyone is very conscious of the fact that we have to stick strictly to the rules. Inside the palace, there is quite a lot of work done for distancing and sanitizers and everyone who goes inside has to wear a mask. We have made sure there are enough masks to help those without. Outside the gate, there is a team of health workers and police. All of whom are helping to explain to people that they need to come in with masks and distancing and lots of sanitisers.” The King’s body will be interred on Wednesday night: 