Six people, including two pedestrians, have been killed in separate road accidents in the Eastern Cape in the last 24 hours. Transport Department spokesperson Unathi Bhinqose says the pedestrians were knocked over at Mooiplaas and Mthatha respectively. It’s believed that the eldest sister of South African Multi-Award-winning musician ‘Zahara’, Nomonde Mkutukana was among the fatalities. Two other people died in a head-on collision on the R61 between Engcobo and Cofimvaba. While another head-on collision at Settlers Way in Gqeberha claimed two lives in the early hours of this morning. Police have opened culpable homicide dockets. One seriously injured in Roodepoort crash Three people were injured, one seriously, after a fully loaded side-tipping truck and trailer collided with a bakkie and three other vehicles on William Nicol road in Roodepoort, West of Johannesburg this morning. The road is known for its frequent and often fatal multivehicle crashes involving trucks, due to the steep gradient of the road. Tipper truck collides with four vehicles, three injured in Roodepoort https://t.co/51HZVKUZRT #ArriveAlive @ER24EMS @TruckAndFreight pic.twitter.com/dpKfMU8NTY — Arrive Alive (@_ArriveAlive) March 6, 2021  ER24 spokesperson Ross Campbell says,”ER24 paramedics arrived along with other private medical services to find the tip truck and trailer on its side over the centre median and a bakkie on its roof. The driver of the bakkie, believed to be a man in his 40s, was found entrapped. ER24 Rescue extracted the patient along with the help of other services on the scene and he was then flown by another private service’s Medical Helicopter to the hospital for further treatment. The South African Police Services were on-scene for further investigations.” Seven killed in Limpopo accident The Limpopo Transport Department has advised motorists to drive carefully after seven people were killed and one seriously injured in a multiple-vehicle pile-up on the N1 near Modimolle in Limpopo. Authorities say the crash occurred on Friday night after a trailer detached from a bakkie and crashed into several vehicles. The Department’s spokesperson Mike Maringa says MEC Mavhungu Lerule-Ramakhanya has described the crash as shocking. “Limpopo Transport and Community Safety MEC Mavhungu-Lerule Ramakhanya has sent messages of condolences to the families of the people who were killed in a multiple-vehicle crash on the N1 last night.” He adds: “The MEC is pleading with motorists to check the condition of their vehicles and also to drive within the prescribed speed limits.”