Deputy Minister in the Presidency, Thembi Siweya, has expressed concern about the growing number of COVID-19-related deaths in the North West. Speaking during an oversight visit of healthcare workers’ vaccinations at the Klerksdorp’s Tshepong Hospital, Siweya appealed for stricter adherence to COVID-19 protocols as the vaccine is not a cure but only a preventive measure. About 1 200 people have already died from the virus in the province. More than 9 000 healthcare workers have so far been vaccinated in the North West, out of a total of 16 748 registered healthcare workers.  Those that have been vaccinated say they are relieved. “I am also one of those who were vaccinated. I had the side effects which were flu-like symptoms. I drank something and after an hour or two later I  was fine,” says one of the vaccinated health workers. Health authorities say the second batch of over 5 000 doses was delivered to the province on Monday. Head of Clinical Services at the North West Health Department Professor Binu Luke says, “From the 2nd to the 15th of March, 5 360 vaccine doses were allocated which was 50% in the first week and I am told that the second vaccine dose also arrived yesterday. So, we have a weekly supply of 2 600 and 2760. The vaccines administered as a province is 9 950 yesterday night and I am sure with all our sites being active we have passed the 10 000 mark.” Compliance with COVID-19 protocols Meanwhile, Siweya has cautioned against lack of compliance with COVID-19 protocols. “We are here as planning, monitoring, and evaluation to ensure that the systems are correctly running and to ensure that we reach what we want to reach which is the population immunity. We want to apologise to our people, if at any stage they feel that things are going quite slow. We remain committed to ensuring that we improve on whatever plans that we have to ensure that we vaccinate our people in large numbers. As much as we are on Level 1, it doesn’t mean the pandemic is not with us. The responsibility of all South African is that if you see me not wearing a mask, you need to tell me that you must wear your mask.” Siweya says the Presidency is pleased with progress in North West:  The Deputy Minister is expected to visit the Eastern Cape in her next oversight visit of healthcare workers’ vaccinations.