Gqunu Senior Primary School in Qumbu in the Eastern Cape received a much-needed facelift. This after Pitbull motorcycle club visited the mud structure school and handed over building materials. Learners at the school also received school uniforms. The bikers are crisscrossing the rural Qumbu area, to lend a helping hand. Gqunu Senior Primary School is one of the disadvantaged schools in the area. There are only two teachers and one classroom, to accommodate three different grades of students. Accessing the school is also a mission, due to the mountainous area that is surrounded by a river. Pitbull bikers rolled their sleeves to improve the poor infrastructure of the school. Pitbull Motorcycle Club president Thulani Soyamba says they have noticed the appalling condition of the school and the challenges faced by learners, who sometimes go to school barefooted. “It’s the first time for us to give full school uniforms, shoes, trousers and plastering the school, but we will continue to provide this kind of assistance even to other schools.” School Governing Body chairperson Kholeka Mbewu says they are excited about the intervention of the bikers. “We are happy to see these bikers. It’s a dream come true for the villagers. We have nothing in this village, no roads, no water and we are asking government to do something.” A villager, Nowinile Mchaphazeli says learners risk their lives daily as they have to walk through the bushes and cross the river. “We are surrounded by rivers and mountains, these kids are struggling to cross the river. There are snakes in the bushes and they cannot go to other schools, but of course, we are happy about this effort by the bikers.” The school principal, Nozuko Notununu says the number of learners at the school affects funding from government. “It’s difficult to be in this school, there are three few classrooms, there are three classes in one classroom. The department gives allocation of funds according to the number of learners, so it is bad.” Poverty and inequality remain a challenge for learners in rural parts of the Eastern Cape, resulting in many not realizing their dreams. Partnerships between government, the private sector and different organisations are seen as key in developing these areas. Pitbull motorcycle club donates to Gqunu Senior Primary School in the Eastern Cape 