The funeral service of 22-year-old Musa Magasela, who was allegedly shot dead by police earlier this month, will be held in Tembisa on the Gauteng East Rand on Monday. He was shot in Olifantsfontein, north east of Johannesburg, after police allegedly mistook him for a hijacker. But there are conflicting reports. Wrestled to the ground, handcuffed, and allegedly shot in the back. This is the disturbing detail of yet another murder, allegedly at the hands of police. “Being handcuffed, asking for help, saying help, help, help.” Peter Makwela, Musa’s father narrates how his son begged for help. But Musa Magasela was instead shot, Makwela is devastated. “He was going to a rehearsal at our church. I was told that my son was walking, two policemen came at the back, they handcuffed him, and they started shooting,” explains Makwela. It’s believed the 22-year-old was then put into the back of a police van. A detective later delivered the news to the family. Inconsistent statements have emerged after confirmation of his death. “He gave me some stories to say, no apparently Musa, they were saying that he was hijacking, and they were three. He said, no no no, whatever that I’m saying is hearsay. I was not on the scene. When we went to see the station commander, he said, no Musa was alone. He was alone trying to hijack. He said no also myself I was not at the scene, this is what I was told,” explains the father Makwela. The family suspects a case of mistaken identity. GRAPHIC CONTENT | Yet another murder, allegedly at the hands of police  Officers arrested in Ntumba’s killing Last week, four police officers were arrested and charged in connection with the killing of 35-year old Mthokozisi Ntumba in Braamfontein. He died after being struck by a rubber bullet during student protests. Police watchdog (IPID) is investigating Magasela’s death. His best friend and fellow musician Tebogo Baloyi says, “It’s a hard thing to think about but he was a best friend of mine. We met four years back and we became close in the music industry and we became very close. He was an amazing guy I don’t want to lie. I really lost a giant. I lost a best friend and a brother in him and a fellow musician. Where you would see me you would see him. We would do road trips. He was a humble soul that not even a single day you would ever think that he would die as he died.” Four police officers accused of killing Mthokozisi Ntumba appear in court: 