The Free State Health Department is planning to increase the number of vaccination sites in the province. To date, more than 7 000 healthcare workers have been vaccinated in the province at five sites. There are more than 22 000 healthcare workers in the province. General Practitioner, Dr. Lieschen Pretorius was among the first Free State healthcare workers to be inoculated. “I don’t feel any different than I did when I walked in here. I took it because I think it’s very important for all of us to be part of this whole campaign to get ourselves vaccinated and get our life back to normal again.” Professional nurse Puleng Matsaneng says there was a lot of misleading information regarding the vaccine. “After vaccinating, I feel okay. I do not have any side effects. There was a lot of misleading information about the vaccine. There is nothing wrong with the vaccine, I am still able to go on my daily activities.” The Free State aims to inoculate almost 2 million people to reach herd immunity. There are more than 2.9 million people living in the province. “ I think I am fine living without the vaccine. I can still wash my hands, sanitise as usual,” says one of the residents of the province. Another person says, “ I will take it because I know someone who has taken it and hasn’t had side effects.” There are five vaccination sites in the Free State, plans are in place to increase the number. “We would like to do more, and we are trying to push and encourage our healthcare workers to the vaccine. Remember that initially as a province we had earmarked close to 33 vaccination sites but because of the limitation of the research sites, we only have this capacity but we are going to expand into other districts,” says Free State Head of the COVID-19 Surveillance and Response  Dr. Sammy Mokoena. Private and public healthcare workers waited for their vaccinations today:  Government has vaccinated more than 100 000 healthcare workers so far The Department of Health says it is pleased that more than 100 000 healthcare workers have been vaccinated in just over two weeks with the early access Johnson and Johnson vaccine. South Africa yesterday marked one year since the first COVID-19 case was recorded in the country. Officials say as demand for the vaccine continues to increase, government is rapidly and successfully rolling out the delivery of the vaccine to healthcare workers through a partnership with the Sisonke Study. The department says the government is working on ensuring that all healthcare workers are vaccinated in a timeous and fair way. Department of Health officials presents the vaccination roll-out plan to Members of Parliament:  The Department of Health has thanked all the healthcare workers who took their vaccinations, saying this act demonstrates their trust in medical science and confidence in the system. 