Former President Jacob Zuma has responded to utterances by Higher Education Minister Dr Blade Nzimande on the issue of free higher education in the country. Nzimande said if it wasn’t for the former President who announced in Nasrec during the African National Congress (ANC) National Elective Conference that the ANC policy on free higher education will be realised, there wouldn’t be such turmoil at the country’s universities. But Zuma says he finds this shocking because free higher education is an ANC policy and has to be implemented. He spoke at his home in Nkandla, KwaZulu-Natal, during a visit by the ANC Women’s League yesterday. The league was the latest to visit Zuma, after many others who have been visiting the former president. Addressing the issue on Nzimande, Zuma says, “Tell him I said, he must stop being naughty. It’s not a minor thing to seeing students being shot dead, while they are fighting for a good course. “How do we even explain that a person dies for fighting for what is right because an ANC government is failing to implement that. That is why I am asking you to talk to him, not me because I might use harsh words.” Protests around fees This is not the first protest around the fees at the university. In 2015, classes were suspended at Wits after students staged a sit-in rejecting the proposed tuition hike of 10.5%. That was the beginning of the #WitsFeeMustFall protest. Below is the infographic on protests at Wits University. WITS PROTESTS TIMELINE Highlights The University of Witwatersrand has been in the forefront of student protests for years STUDENT PROTESTS BEGIN Classes were suspended at the University of Witwatersrand afterstudents staged a sit in, demonstrating their refusal of theproposed tuition hike of 10.5%. 14 students are arrested and taken to the Hillbrow Police Station for violating a court order which the university obtained earlier in the year.  On 17  February a bus is set alight just after 11pm outside the Knockando Halls of Residence in Rockridge Road in Parktown.  2015 2016 STUDENT ARRESTS SPARK VIOLENCE FEB OCT LECTURE HALLS TORCHED Classes have been disrupted and lecture halls reportedly torched at the University of Witwatersrand. This after a protest action by students and non-students over fees. 2016 RIVAL STUDENT GROUPS CLASH Student group #TakeWitsBack has abandoned its march calling for Wits University to resume with academic activity after being confronted by some #FeesMustFall demonstrators. EMPIRE ROAD BLOCKED About 100 Wits students burnt tyres at the intersection of Yale andEmpire Roads over the new Yale Village residence‚ demanding cleaning services, WiFi‚ transport  2017 2016 OCT 2021 ONE PERSON KILLED One person has died after police fired rubber bullets at Wits University’s protesting students at the Braamfontein campus on Wednesday. Students have threatened to continue their protest over the financial exclusion of students. MARCH (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document)); Candlelight vigil Meanwhile, representatives from various organisations, Friday night, held a candlelight vigil in Cape Town for 35-year-old Mthokozisi Ntumba who was shot dead allegedly by police during a protest by Wits university students on Thursday. Ntumba was not part of the student action. A group that includes students, learners and workers representatives gathered at the Grand Parade in the CBD also to show solidarity with students that are fighting against financial exclusion. Cwayita Wenana from Equal Education explains said, “We unite with students in high education. We unite with other people fighting in other sectors to be in solidarity with students and the cadre who lost his life and also to say we want better from our government we want them to fix and fund our schools, but government has done the opposite they have taken money away from all of us.” University’s student protests: Resolving differences Wits University on Friday said it has made several attempts to meet with the leadership of the SRC and is still willing to engage with them to resolve their differences. The SRC has boycotted two virtual meetings with university management – saying they want to meet in person. Since Monday, Wits students have taken to the streets to protest what they say is the university’s refusal to register some students with years of outstanding debt.