The five men accused of the murder of Senzo Meyiwa are due back in the Boksburg Magistrate’s Court in Ekurhuleni on Friday morning. The former Bafana Bafana and Orlando Pirates goalkeeper was shot dead at the home of his girlfriend Kelly Khumalo in Voslroorus in 2014. The five face charges of murder, robbery with aggravating circumstances, attempted murder and possession of an unlicensed firearm and ammunition. During their last court appearance in November last year the matter was postponed to today for further investigations. The case is expected to be postponed again so that the case can be moved to the High Court. During the last court appearance of the five suspects, Afriforum’s advocate Gerrie Nel expressed disappointment that the suspected mastermind in the murder of Meyiwa was not in the dock. He believed that police had uncovered more evidence, making the case for the arrest of the alleged mastermind stronger. Nel hopes the mastermind will be present during this court appearance. SABC News Reporter Chriselda Lewis speaks to Chillies Nchabeleng, who is supporting the Meyiwa family outside court:  Drama During the appearance of the five suspect in October last year, there was drama inside court as the accused refused to get into the accused box. Instead, Muzikawukhulelwa Sibiya, Bongani Ntanzi, Mthobisi Mncube, Mthokozeni Maphisa and Sifokuhle Ntuli stood beside the accused box throughout court proceedings. Aside from Ntazi who has his own appointed legal representative, the Magistrate asked the other accused if they will need a legal representative provided for by the state. The accused told the court that they see no necessity to have legal representatives. Mncube even went as far as asking why he has been brought before court insisting that he did not kill Senzo Meyiwa. The suspect also told the court that they will not be applying for bail, some of them indicating that they do not see any necessity to apply to be freed on bail as they are already serving time in prison. VIDEO: The suspects were charged with murder, attempted murder, robbery with aggravated circumstances and possession of unlicensed firearms and ammunition: 