Deputy Health Minister Dr. Joe Phaahla’s response to opposition parties in Parliament on Friday, that the Johnson and Johnson (J&J) COVID-19 vaccine that is being administered to health workers has not been formally registered with the South African Health Products Regulatory Authority (SAHPRA), has put a spotlight on vaccine licensing. Phaahla also revealed that the vaccines being used in the rollout were part of a batch J&J was using to conduct expanded research in terms of human trials. This put him under fire from MPs as they accused government of acting unethically and lying to the public. The vaccine proves to 57% effective to moderate to mild diseases caused by COVID-19 and 85% effective in respect to COVID-19 diseases that are quite severe. It is effective as opposed to the AstraZeneca vaccine which was proven not to be effective to the variant, 501Y.V2. In February, government started administering the vaccine to healthcare workers under a clinical trial program called Sisonke, which was approved by SAHPRA as it awaits the registration process. The infographic below shows the clinical trials that a vaccine goes through and how it is licensed: sabcnews.com | SABC News channel | SABC Radio news VACCINE LICENSING The Health Department’s admittance to Parliament that the Johnson and Johnson COVID-19 vaccine that is being administered has not being formally registered with the South African Health Products Regulatory Authority (SAHPRA) has put a spotlight on vaccine licencing. Below is the process of licensing a vaccine: -A vaccine developed and it is tested on animals to show that its safe and that it works. PRE-CLINICAL TRIALS PHASE 1: TEST THAT VACCINE IS SAFE  -Regulatory preparatory work required, site and institution to do vaccine testing identified and detailed proposal on protocol to be submitted and approved by scientific committee.  -Health regulator licenses product to be tested, less than 100 participants recruited for trials.   -A group given the vaccine and the other group receive a placebo (Inactive substance that looks like the vaccine) and if vaccine proves to be safe, you move to Phase 2. PHASE 2: CHECK WHETHER VACCINE INDUCES IMMUNE RESPONSE  -You recruit up to 500 people and test the dose on two or three groups which receive different doses and then you compare with placebo group.  -If your results show that your placebo is safe and produces the immune response that is expected, then the next is to go to phase 3. AMENDED LEVEL 3  Source:  ﻿Dr. Benjamin Kagina from UCT’s Vaccine for Africa. PHASES IN HUMAN TESTING PHASE 3: TEST VACCINE ON THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE  -You test whether the vaccine works by looking at the people who received the vaccine compared to the placebo group, do they develop the disease that you want to prevent?  - Findings and outcome of the trial. PHASE 3 B: IMPLEMENTATION STUDIES (Eg: The Johnson and Johnson’s Sisonke Protocol)  -You test on bigger numbers than phase 3, no one receives a placebo because you know the effectiveness of the product, you confirm the vaccine works and that its safe. This is done as you await registration. PHASE 4: LICENSING OF VACCINE  -Licensing of a vaccine happens after phase 3 of you trial shows that the product works.  -The regulator will assess the data that has been generated from the testing of this vaccine including animal study, phase 1, phase 2 and phase 3. They want data from various sources.  -Products is then licensed, given authority of usage by the World Health Organisation and the vaccine becomes commercial. -After being licenced it is tested on millions to monitoring of safety. (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document));