The African Transformation Movement (ATM) has thrown its weight behind Public Protector, Busisiwe Mkhwebane, as she fights to keep her job. This after an independent panel established by Parliament to look into her fitness to hold office, found prima facie evidence of incompetence and misconduct on the part of Mkhwebane. The National Assembly is yet to decide whether to proceed with the impeachment process against Mkhwebane. The motion was brought by the DA following several damning court findings against her. Howevr, ATM spokesperson, Zama Ntshona, believes Mkhwebane is a victim of a political witch-hunt. “She is the first Public Protectors to achieve a clean audit in 25 years, instead of being celebrated, she is being persecuted. This frivolous DA-sponsored motion is dishonest. The Democratic Alliance and their collaborators must not be allowed to use Parliament as part of their forum as they seek to undo the gains of this democracy with their anti-redress quest to oust an African woman, who by all objective indicators is leading on matters of governance and helping the poorest of the poor,” says Ntshona. Review panel finds prima facie evidence exists for Mkhwebane’s removal:  ANC MPs won’t vote with opposition Some ANC members in Parliament have already pronounced that they will not vote with the opposition for Mkhwebane’s possible impeachment. It’s alleged through weekend newspapers that ANC Secretary-General, Ace Magashule, had given instructions to all ANC MPs not to vote with the so-called enemy should the National Assembly decide to proceed in removing Mkhwebane. ANC Chief Whip in Parliament, Pammy Majodina, would not confirm the allegations by refusing to give a comment. But ANC MP, Mervyn Dirks, told SABC News that there is no way he will vote with the opposition benches in support of the motion. “Firstly it’s a DA motion and I will not support their neo-liberal fight against the Public Protector. Secondly, this is an attack on our Chapter 9 institutions. It is also an attack on the person of the public protector. Because of the very various investigation against very higher powerful persons in this country. Lastly, when the DA submitted this motion to the office of the speaker – it was not brought to us as parliamentarians to debate it and take a decision on the motion of the DA,” explains Dirks. Mkhwebane confident she will be cleared of any wrongdoing: 