Wrestled to the ground, handcuffed, and allegedly shot in the back. This is the disturbing detail of yet another murder, allegedly at the hands of police. 22-year-old Musa Magasela was shot and killed in an apparent case of mistaken identity in Olifantsfontein’s Clayville East on Thursday. It’s believed police mistook him for a hijacker. But there are conflicting reports. “Being handcuffed, asking for help, saying help, help, help.” Peter Makwela, Musa’s father narrates how his son begged for help. But Musa Magasela was instead shot, allegedly by police. Makwela is devastated. “He was going to a rehearsal at our church. I was told that my son was walking, two policemen came at the back, they handcuffed him, and they started shooting,” explains Makwela. It’s believed the 22-year old was then put into the back of a police van. A detective later delivered the news to the family. Inconsistent statements have emerged after confirmation of his death. “He gave me some stories to say, no apparently Musa, they were saying that he was hijacking, and they were three. He said, no no no, whatever that I’m saying is hearsay, I was not on the scene. When we went to see the station commander, he said, no Musa was alone, he was alone trying to hijack. He said no also myself I was not at the scene, this is what I was told,” explains the father Makwela. The family suspects a case of mistaken identity. “We are not sure whether whatever that they’re doing is just a cover-up or whatever, if Musa did that, obviously he was supposed to face the might of the law, for police to say that my son was a hijacker, I can’t accept that, but let the law prove that my son was really a hijacker.” Musa’s parents went to the police station in search of answers. His father retrieved a sketch they were given by police. It shows a bullet entry wound in the back. “I have got a form D28, this confirms that Musa was shot at the back. It shows that this person didn’t pose any danger to those policemen if you arrested him and he’s in your custody, I don’t understand why did you shoot, why did they shoot? That’s what I’m asking, why did they shoot?” Key eyewitnesses are fearing for their lives. They’ve declined to talk. It happened just a kilometre from Musa’s family home. And a stone’s throw from Thalitha Molokoane’s property. “I heard a gunshot, I was so scared, I locked the doors, I closed the garage when we came out, the van was already there, he was screaming when they pushed him in the van and said ‘yooh, yooh, you’re hurting me’ but I didn’t see him, I only heard the voice,” says Molokoane. Police took Musa to Tembisa Hospital, four kilometres from the scene. His cousin Lehlohonolo Makwela alleges a cover-up. “I feel very aggrieved that we couldn’t even see any marking somewhere to say this was where the bullet cartridge was found, but when we got here we found nothing, it is very strange.” IPID spokesperson Ndileka Colais confirmed that the police watchdog was investigating. “I can confirm that the Olifantsfontein matter has been reported to IPID, and IPID only collected the docket this morning and the directorate managed to attend post mortem.” Musa, who was a backing vocalist and soccer coach. “All I need is justice, I don’t need anything, all I need is justice,” cries the father. A petition calling for justice is gaining momentum. Investigations are under way. GRAPHIC CONTENT | Yet another murder, allegedly at the hands of police 