The Democratic Alliance (DA) in eThekwini has warned that the African National Congress’ (ANC) prolonged inability to fill the vacant position of Deputy Mayor will compromise the functioning of the municipality. The position became vacant last month following the resignation of Belinda Scott after two years in office. Pic Credit: supplied. #sabcnews #sabckzn eThekwini municipality remains mum about the sudden resignation of its Deputy Mayor Belinda Scott. Mayor Mxolisi Kaunda confirmed today his Deputy resignation in an executive committee meeting. Scott previously served as Finance Mec pic.twitter.com/eJRtVAHHar — Nonkululeko Hlophe (@Leko3) February 23, 2021  Scott was redeployed to the municipality in late 2019. She was the Finance MEC when the ANC moved her to the metro. The DA’s eThekwini caucus chief whip Thabani Mthethwa says the position should be filled during the next council meeting. “Understanding the former Deputy Mayor’s last day in office was end of February. We would then expect the ANC to make sure that during the council meeting of this month [March], we make sure that we fill that vacancy. Because that is such a senior position.” “If it remains vacant, it will impact on the delivery of services to the people of eThekwini. We do understand though that there are serious infighting among the ANC as who should come in or who should not come in,” explains Mthethwa. The ANC in KwaZulu-Natal says it has begun the process of looking for a replacement for Scott. The party’s provincial spokesperson Nhlakanipho Ntombela says they are yet to decide if Scott’s replacement should be a sitting councillor or someone from outside the council. “Latest before the end of the month we are starting, the ANC will announce on the suitable candidate for Deputy Mayorship position of eThekwini. As you all understand, it will take time to analyse properly in the council and outside who can be the best suited to take the responsibility.” “We look into a number of as you would have noticed that when we made changes in eThekwini we did not only look within those who were councillors, we even went outside to say how can we complement those who were within. So we will also do the same, to say among us who is best suited,” says Ntombela.