The anniversary of the death of anti-apartheid activist, Dulcie September, has been marked with a special webinar hosted by the University of the Western Cape’s Dullah Omar Institute. September was shot and killed on the 29th of March 1988, while working as an ANC representative in Paris, France. On the 33rd anniversary of her murder, academics, struggle stalwarts and diplomats in South Africa and France, paid tribute online to a heroine of the liberation movement. Shot five times from behind as she was opening the ANC office in Paris, the former teacher was part of various liberal movements against the apartheid government before joining the ANC. Arrested and detained without trial, she was convicted of sabotage in 1964 and was sentenced to five years imprisonment. Upon her release, September was placed on a five-year banning order, prohibiting her from teaching and engaging in any political activity. Public lecture on anti-apartheid activist Dulcie September:  Vice-Chancellor of the University of the Western Cape, Tyrone Pretorius, says Dulcie paid the ultimate price in her fight for the liberation of South Africa. “Unlike many who buckled under the yoke of oppression, Dulcie September stepped forward to make her voice known, using her passionate belief in social justice and equality to fight for the freedom of not only her fellow citizens, but her country,” says Pretorius. September left for exile in England in 1973, and later worked as the ANC’s representative in France, Switzerland and Luxemborg, where part of her duties were to rally international support for economic sanctions against the apartheid South African government. Deputy Minister of International Relations and Cooperation, Candith Mashego-Dlamini, described September as a heroine of the South African struggle for liberation. “As a people we are forever grateful for her immense contribution to the freedom and democracy we enjoy today. She remained loyal and principled to the end. She personified extraordinary sacrifice, detention, torture and burnings at a young age, failed to break her spirit. Her brutal assassination at the age of 52 years robbed us of her life at its prime. We are however comforted by the knowledge that many have been inspired by her and many have chosen to walk in her footsteps to try to emulate her life,” she said. A documentary premiered by the SABC on Human Rights Day is aimed at reopening the investigation into her assassination. It is believed she was investigating an illicit arms trade.