Several laptops have been delivered to two high schools in Stellenbosch, in the Western Cape, to encourage them to grow in the digital space. The initiative is a partnership between the International Relations and Cooperation Department and the Government of Qatar. Makupula Secondary School in Kayamandi achieved a 94% matric pass rate last year despite the challenges of COVID-19. Deputy Principal, Silokazana Mpahlwa, has expressed gratitude after receiving the computers from International Relations Minister, Naledi Pandor, and Qatar’s ambassador to South Africa, Tariq Ali Faraq. Mpahlwa says she’s very happy. “The computers are going to make a difference in our school. We lack resources. We still need more. This is a great thing for our learners.” A Grade 12 learner, Iviwe Rasmeni, says it’s encouraging to get more computers at their school. “More learners will have enough time to use the laptops accordingly to be able to do their work.” Head of the nearby Luckhoff High School, Chris Jooste, says he’s also overwhelmed. “What we received today is definitely gonna help us a lot. Our students were struggling with comorbidities, struggling with online. These equipment will help to reach what we planned for 2021. It’s big blessing for us.” A matric learner at Luckhoff, William Horne, says he can now focus on his academic year with enthusiasm. “It’s going to empower us mentally to be able to go out in the world and do things that we couldn’t do.” Minister Pandor says education is one of the governments key priorities. “As we return to school after a very tumultuous year due to COVID-19 impact on our country, it’s important that we, as leaders in South Africa, highlight the importance of education once more, build a very close connection between schools and ourselves,” she says. Ali Sary says supporting education is part of nation building, peace and development. “Without an educated generation, it’s going be very difficult with the challenges of the 21st century. We (have) tremendous responsibility on us towards the generation. Without preparing them to be engineers, doctors, teachers and scientists, it would be difficult to cope with the challenges and the COVID-19 pandemic is a good example. We need scientist, and technology is very important.” Each high school has received 10 laptops.