The African National Congress’ virtual National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting is currently under way following discussions on the party’s Integrity Commission set to top the agenda. ANC Spokesperson Pule Mabe says the party will be focussing on finalising the terms that govern and guide the work of the integrity commission. He says the NEC will be going through drafts that have been submitted for consideration. The ANC adopted a resolution to set up the Integrity Commission at its 2012 national conference. It was meant to deal with unethical behaviour within party ranks. But its recommendations are not binding – making it toothless. It has since recommended that ANC Secretary-General, Ace Magashule, step down pending the finalisation of his corruption case. Some party members say this is because the commission is not empowered to do its job. Other issues up for discussion include funding for tertiary education, the upcoming local elections, and the COVID-19 response as well as the vaccine rollout:  ANCLY Mabe says their dysfunctional youth structure will also be under discussion. “Of course there will be an update on issues that have to do with ANCLY as it relates to finalising those young men and women who will have to steer the ship in the national youth task team.” The NEC meeting will also use the opportunity to encourage party members to co-operate with the state capture commission. President Cyril Ramaphosa is expected to appear before it next month. The party is likely to discuss the ongoing tug of war between its former leader Jacob Zuma and the Zondo Commission. “There has been that assurance that his actions must never be in any way be perceived or understood to be a direct undermining of the constitution. He had said himself that it had to with the presiding officer in this instance the DCJ he has raised it is not the ANC that is saying the ANC will persuade its members to appear before the state capture when so invited.” Meanwhile, the ANC will also reflect on its relations with its alliance partners the Congress of South African Trade Unions and the South African Communist Party, after a series of bilateral meetings with them last week. The meeting will end on Sunday.