Eastern Cape police have launched a manhunt for three remaining suspects following an incident in which three people were shot dead outside the offices of a bus company in Perridgevale, Gqeberha. Police spokesperson Priscilla Naidu says it’s alleged that two people aged 21 and 36 left the offices after buying tickets to Gauteng. Outside they were met with a hail of bullets from five armed suspects and were fatally wounded. Naidu says a stray bullet hit an innocent bystander as he left a supermarket on the premises. She adds that two of the suspects were arrest and the other three fled in a silver-grey vehicle. “Soon after the shooting, SAPS Mount Road members spotted a silver-grey Honda Civic driving in Burt Drive in Newton Park with no registration plates. They followed the vehicle and as they tried to pull it over, it sped away. Approximately five males were in the vehicle. During the ensuing chase, a firearm was tossed out of the vehicle in Searle Road. The vehicle crashed into a lamppost in Neave Street in Shauderville. All five occupants got out and ran in different directions. Anti-Gang Unit members assisting SAPS Mount Road spotted two males both with firearms running across Highfield Road. They chased after them and apprehended them in Peddie Street in Korsten. Two firearms (a revolver and a 9mm pistol) were recovered. The vehicle was reported as hijacked in Humewood earlier in the day. The motive for the murders is unknown at this stage,” says Naidu. Arrest in Cape Town A 23-year-old man has been arrested for allegedly being in possession of drugs and a fake firearm after Metro Police stopped and searched him near Milnerton, in Cape Town. Metro Police spokesperson Ruth Solomons says officers were conducting patrols in the area when they noticed three suspicious men. She says one of the men was found with dagga and cocaine in his possession. “Officers approached and identified themselves. With their permission, the officers searched the trio. One of them was found with dagga and cocaine. A further search led to the discovery of an imitation firearm in his backpack. Officers arrested the 23-year-old suspect for the illegal possession of drugs and an imitation firearm. He was detained at Milnerton SAPS,” adds Solomons.