Communities in the Eastern Cape have cited perceptions around police inaction in dealing with crime, as the reason for taking the law into their own hands. The province is currently experiencing a rise in vigilante cases. These cases have become more prevalent in rural areas. This past week, nine suspected criminals died at the hands of communities in three separate incidents. Five young men were burnt to death while two others were found hanging from trees at Zingqolweni village in Cacadu. Another suspect was beaten to death, allegedly by an angry mob at Mpandela village in Mthatha. Community leaders say they’ve had enough. “Crime is rife in this village. I do not condone it when people take the law into their hands, but because I saw the young man lying here in a pool of blood, I didn’t know what to do. I saw what the suspect had done to him. Every time we call the police they do not come to help us. Sometimes we identify the suspects but they are never arrested.” Last week, a murder suspect was beaten up in Silityiwa in Dutywa. He is alleged to have murdered his neighbour, Abongile Mcunukelwa. Residents allegedly followed the traces of blood, leading to the suspect’s house. The family of the deceased say they are devastated. His grandmother Nothobile Mcunukelwa says, ”I’m in my 70s now, but I’ve never seen what I saw. That was so brutal. My grandson would do odd jobs so that we can eat. He would go and plaster people’s houses so that he can assist me as I’m only getting old-age grant. I don’t even know how we will bury him because we have nothing.” The police are calling on communities to refrain from vigilante action. Provincial Police Spokesperson Tembinkosi Kinana has warned that vigilantism has legal consequences. “We do understand the concerns that our people are raising in relation to reaction time. It must, however, be clarified that there are a number of factors that are causing such delays. One, our province is very vast. You take a couple of hours to get from one scene to another. And in some, whilst our people are reporting cases, it sometimes happens that our police officers are still working on another scene and that therefore, explains why they will delay getting to another scene. I do not think it is fair to assume that these kinds of incidents are influenced by a lack of commitment or quick reaction on the part of the police. Emotions will not solve problems that people are facing.” Eight suspects, including a Ward councillor from Emalahleni Local Municipality, are in custody for the murder of the seven men in Cacadu.