Five people have been killed in two separate collisions in Limpopo last night. In the first incident, drivers of two cars and two of their passengers died when their vehicles collided on the D856 road near Philadelphia in the Sekhukhune district. In the second incident, a driver also died when his vehicle collided with another car on the R81 outside Giyani. Limpopo Transport spokesperson Mike Maringa says preliminary investigations revealed that reckless driving is the possible cause of the two crashes. “The first one happened on the R81 next to Giyani where two sedans collided head on, the driver of a sedan, being a Hyundai was killed instantly and three other people were rushed to hospital. While four were killed in a head-on collision in Sekhukhune near Philadelphia where a Mahindra and another sedan collided head-on and four people were certified dead on the scene.” Motorist killed after hitting a cow in Mpumalanga Four pedestrians have been killed in four separate incidents in Mpumalanga’s highveld region in the past 24 hours. In one incident a motorist was killed after she hit a cow on the N2 between Mkhondo and Ermelo. Provincial Community Safety, Security and Liaison spokesperson Moeti Mmusi has called on both motorists and pedestrians to be careful when driving or crossing the road. “Four pedestrians were killed in four incidents on Good Friday.  This happened in Mhluzi R568 near Emalahleni as well as N12 Delmas and R53 road near Vaalbank and there’s was a person who was killed yesterday on the N2 road when she crashed into a cow.” Free State accident In the Free State, one person was killed after a truck overturned on the N-1 near Winburg yesterday. Free State Transport spokesperson Hillary Mophethe says police are investigating a case of culpable homicide. Earlier, police had their hands full to disperse residents who were looting the bottles of juice in the truck. Mophethe says the road was cleared after it was closed for several hours. “It’s alleged that around half past four in the morning as reported by the truck driver to the police that there was a silver Isuzu that lost control and drove straight into the truck. The truck overturned in the middle of the road. It was discovered that there’s a male person who died from the accident so there is a culpable homicide case that is opened and the matter is at the SAPS,” says Mophethe. Four killed in Jozini accident in KZN Four members of a family were killed in a crash involving four vehicles near Jozini in northern KwaZulu-Natal on Good Friday. Road traffic inspectorate spokesperson Zinhle Mali said one person, who sustained injuries, was taken to the Bay hospital in Richards Bay for medical attention. “Four people died being the father, mother, daughter and son in a collision involving four vehicles on the N2 Biobab in Zululand area. The cause of an accident is unknown at this stage. Four counts of culpable homicide is investigated. The injured were taken to Bay hospital.” Traffic to Maputo Meanwhile, traffic volumes were high on the N4 leading to Maputo in Mozambique on Friday morning. The Lebombo Border Post was relatively quiet compared to previous years. On average, 10 000 travellers were processed at the border in the past, but this year just under 1 000 travellers were processed on Thursday. Border control management manned a roadblock seven kilometres from the border post to search and clear vehicles. Police, traffic officers and health officials also monitored adherence to COVID-19 protocols at the roadblock. 