KwaZulu-Natal Premier, Sihle Zikalala, has conveyed his condolences to the AmaZulu Royal Family on the death of the Regent, Queen Mantfombi Dlamini Zulu. In a statement, Zikalala says it is a double blow for the royal household and the people of the province as the Royal Family is still in mourning following the passing of King Goodwill Zwelithini kaBhekuzulu from COVID-19-related complications in March after a reign of nearly five decades. The Queen died on Thursday night at the age of 65. Prince Mangosuthu Buthelezi announces the Queen’s passing:  The Chief of Mvezo, Zwelivelile Mandela, has conveyed his condolences on behalf of the royal house of Mandela to the AmaZulu nation on the passing of the Regent, Queen Mantfombi Dlamini  Zulu. Mandela says it comes as a great shock for the Queen to die shortly after the death of the AmaZulu King Goodwill Zwelithini kaBhekuzulu. Mandela says South Africa is again deprived of an important leader. KwaZulu-Natal Democratic Alliance (DA) leader, Francois Rodgers, has also expressed the party’s  condolences to the AmaZulu Nation and the Royal Family. “The Democratic Alliance extends its deepest and heartfelt condolences to the Royal Family and to the Zulu nation on the sad and tragic news on the passing of Her Majesty Queen Mantfombi Dlamini Zulu. At this time we keep the family and the nation in our thoughts and in our prayers,” adds Rodgers. Last night, President Cyril Ramaphosa also sent government’s message of condolence to the Zulu nation, saying: “We extend our thoughts, prayers and hearts once more to the Royal Family who, in the midst of mourning the passing of the beloved King, are now called upon to bid farewell to the Regent in sadly short succession. We stand by the Royal Family and the nation in this hour of compounded grief.” No leadership vacuum Queen Mantfombi Dlamini-Zulu was appointed regent about a month ago in accordance with the wishes of her late husband, King Goodwill Zwelithini kaBhekuzulu. The regent would have ruled until the King’s successor had been installed. Discussions on who the successor would be, would have only started after a the Royal Family’s three-month mourning period. Meanwhile, AmaZulu Traditional Prime Minister, Prince Mangosuthu Buthelezi, has given the assurance that there will be no leadership vacuum following the Queen’s death. He says Queen Mantfombi Dlamini Zulu’s passing has come as a huge shock to the Royal Family. “This has taken us by surprise and left us utterly bereft. On behalf of the Royal Family, [I] wish to assure the nation that while we are all rightly grieve stricken, there will be no leadership vacuum in the Zulu nation. Further announcement on Her Majesty’s funeral will be made in due course,” explains Buthelezi. Below is a statement from KwaZulu-Natal Premier Sihle Zikalala: 