South Africa’s Ambassador to the USA, Nomaindia Mfeketho says it is time that dialogue began about the issue of race relations and police brutality in America. She was reacting to the fatal shooting of KwaZulu-Natal rugby player, Lindani Myeni in Honolulu in Hawaii, allegedly by police. She says the embassy will be closely monitoring the police investigation to get to the bottom of the tragedy. The 29-year–old Myeni, who was living in Hawaii with his American-born wife and two children was shot on Wednesday after the police allegedly responded to call of a burglary in progress and a fight ensued. Mfeketho says although as embassies they cannot intervene, countries need to discuss issues around police brutality. “I think country to country, we are supposed to be discussing these issues. The United Nations also has some constraints and definitely, we also have some constraints, but we sit here, we see the new administration, in particular, trying to deal with guns. We see the people of America beginning to be very strong and vocal about what is happening. These are some of the things that we cannot interfere in, in person but the platform that we are in can talk about some of what they are dealing with already.” Police say that Myeni, who lived nearby, allegedly followed a woman to her home and exhibited strange behaviour. They also say that when they arrived at the home, he charged the officers. However, in a Facebook post, his widow Lindsay Myeni says her husband had gone out for a drive after a fun family day. She says he was only gone for 18 minutes when she received the news that her husband had been shot four times. His now widowed wife singing Eyami lendoda on their wedding day#JusticeForLindaniMyeni https://t.co/Q7ZmHsIPCE — ZahThando (@Zakamu1) April 17, 2021  The Myeni family speaks out:  Jaguar’s rugby club vice-chairperson Onwhinne Hindley says Myeni was a gentle giant with a heart of gold. “Because he was such a gentle soul and a gentle giant and very well respected in the rugby fraternity and he was truly a gentleman and very respected, very calm and a very passive character. He will be sorely missed and we really pass on our condolences out to his family his wife and his two kids and obviously his family here in Durban. May his soul rest in peace,” says Hindley. Hindley’s full tribute to Myeni is in the video below:  The South African Government needs to demand answers from the US Government. The bodycam footage from the police is not convincing. Lindani was walking in the street when he was pointed out as a robber. 3 cops, one man. He was not a threat to them. #JusticeForLindaniMyeni pic.twitter.com/ydHX0Fje86 — Khanyi Magubane (@Khanyi_Magubane) April 17, 2021 