Tesla Inc has filed an appeal on a US National Labour Relations Board ruling that the electric-car maker had violated labour law, and on the agency’s order that Chief Executive Officer Elon Musk delete a tweet from the account. The electric-car maker filed a petition on Friday with the New Orleans-based US Court of Appeals to review the NLRB’s decision and order issued on March 25. In the petition, Tesla asked the court to review the order and grant Tesla “any further relief which the Court deems just and equitable.” Last month, the NRLB ordered Tesla to direct Musk to delete the tweet and to post a notice addressing the unlawful tweet at all of its facilities nationwide and include language that says “WE WILL take appropriate steps to ensure Musk complies with our directive.” In the 2018 tweet, Musk wrote: “Nothing stopping Tesla team at our car plant from voting union. Could do so tomorrow if they wanted. But why pay union dues & give up stock options for nothing? Our safety record is 2X better than when plant was UAW & everybody already gets healthcare.” The NLRB also directed Tesla to offer one former employee reinstatement as well as to rescind 2017 rules that prohibited distributing union literature in its parking lot on non-work time and rules that barred distributing union stickers, leaflets, and pamphlets without first obtaining permission. Tesla posts record deliveries The company on Friday posted record deliveries for the January to March quarter, beating Wall Street estimates, as solid demand for less expensive models offset the impact of a global shortage of parts. “We are encouraged by the strong reception of the Model Y in China and are quickly progressing to full production capacity,” Tesla said in a statement. “The new Model S and Model X have also been exceptionally well received and we are in the early stages of ramping production,” it added. Tesla’s Shanghai factory started production of the Model Y late last year in the key market where it already produces Model 3 sedans. In February, Tesla’s China sales jumped from the previous month even as demand usually falls during China’s Lunar New Year holidays which occurred that month. The electric-car maker delivered 184 800 vehicles globally during the first quarter, above estimates of 177 822 vehicles, according to Refinitiv data. This also exceeds its previous record of 180,570 achieved last quarter. In February, Tesla suspended its California plant for two days due to “parts shortages.” “We believe China and Europe were particularly robust this quarter,” said Dan Ives, an analyst at Wedbush. He expects Tesla’s annual sales to exceed 850 000 vehicles this year, fueled by the Biden administration’s policy of boosting EV sales and by rising global demand.