The ANC National Youth Task Team (NYTT) has called for National Executive Committee (NEC) members Tony Yengeni and Enoch Godongwana to be disciplined. The NYTT was outlining the resolutions taken at its first official meeting held this weekend. The NYTT says recordings of the last ANC NEC meeting that were circulated on social media are an indication that the ANC is in trouble and needs renewal. Paul Mashatile describes those who leaked the recording as ill-disciplined:  Yengeni and Godongwana are reported to have been heard discussing the meeting on their phones after forgetting to mute their devices. Task Team Convenor, Joy Maimela, says the NYTT is a unifying structure and will not stand by as the ANC is torn apart by factional battles. “We are happy that the ANC president agreed with the ANCYL suggestion that all NEC members, including the national officials, must go back to political school and that Comrade Enoch Godongwana and Comrade Toni Yengeni must be taken to the Disciplinary Committee of the ANC for their ill-disciplined and appalling conduct. We urge all members and leaders of the ANC at all levels to place the wellbeing and transformation of the lives of the disenfranchised people of South Africa above their own personal interests,” adds Maimela. Newly-established NYTT briefs media on outcomes of three day meeting:  Rebuilding the ANC Youth League The newly-established body has been given six months to prepare and hold the ANC Youth League’s National Congress. It says it will be conducting an assessment of the League’s lower structures as a start towards rebuilding the body. The League has been in decline since 2013 when the leadership structure lead by Julius Malema now leader of the EFF, was disbanded. Following its first meeting this weekend, the NYTT was expected to announce that it would disband the Leagues’ provincial structures where some members, it has been alleged, are above the age of 35. However, Maimela says that a thorough audit is required first. “We saw it fit to firstly appoint a working committee that will then accept the handover report, not just accept it, but process it. So, there is going to be an assessment that is made on our structures and that assessment. Obviously, we are going to ensure our structures, particularly the lower structures, are in line with the directive of the NEC that members of those structures must be 35 years old and below. We are going to ensure that aspect is featured when we then start the process of rebuilding,” adds Maimela. Age questions However, the NYTT itself is facing questions about the ages of its own members. It has been alleged that some in the structure do not fulfil the requirement of being below 36. ANC National Spokesperson, Pule Mabe, says those with evidence in this regard should come forward. “We gave that task to the officials, to work with provinces to make sure that, from the different provinces, those young men and women could then be brought in to constitute the structure that we now know. If there are issues that are being raised about the ages of cadres that might be constituting the NYTT, those that have such evidence are welcome to engage with the office of the secretary general,” says Mabe. ANC NYTT to prioritise giving youth a voice in the ANC:  The NYTT says it will now also be assessing its legal standing as well as that of the ANC Youth League. It says it will be seeking to meet with members of cabinet that have a role to play in youth empowerment. ANC top officials meet with newly elected National Youth Task Team: 