The leaders of AmaZulu Warriors (Izinduna Zezinsizwa) have hailed the South African government for ensuring a dignified send-off for the late AmaZulu king Goodwill Zwelithini kaBhekuzulu. They gathered in Durban today for the first time since the passing of the king last month. Seventy-two-year-old King of the Zulu nation passed away at a Durban hospital due to COVID-related complications while being treated for diabetes. President Cyril Ramaphosa accorded him a Special Official Funeral Category 1. Sipho Mhlongo, a regiment from Ulundi, has commended government for this. “We commend national government, President Cyril Ramaphosa for granting the King category 1 funeral, we also commend provincial Government led by Premier Sihle Zikalala for their role. We also appreciate the Zulu Prime Minister Umntwana wakwaPhindangene for his leadership and warning us not to come in numbers due to COVID-19,” says Mhlongo. During the King’s memorial service AmaZulu warriors came in numbers to pay their last respects despite COVID-19 regulations. Regiments leader (umdidiyeli wamabutho) Mlandeni “Mgilija” Nhleko says they didn’t intend breaking COVID-19 regulations, but had to come out in their numbers to show their last respect to the longest serving king of the AmaZulu nation. “None of us had any flu symptoms, we were warning about the danger of coming in numbers to pay respect to the late King but we could not sit at home. We had to go and pay our last respect to our King. We braved ourselves from the time we went to fetch his body in hospital. It was not out of disrespect but we did not have a choice. We had to honour our King,” says Nhleko. Mhlongo says there are no reports of any of the regiments attended the King’s memorial service at KwaKhethomthandayo Palace who might have contracted virus on the day. “After our gathering, we waited for 15 days up to a month playing by ear to check any of the people got infected, even community member not of us showed any symptoms.  That means none of the people who we went to pay respect to the late King contracted COVID-19,” he explains. The izinduna steered clear of commenting on leadership issues of the Zulu Royal Family, saying they will await a decision from those tasked with dealing with the issue. AmaZulu Traditional Prime Minister, Prince Mangosuthu Buthelezi, previously said that a decision would be made after the three-month mourning period. Memorial Service for AmaZulu King Goodwill Zwelithini kaBhekuzulu: 