The Department of Roads and Transport in the Eastern Cape says it will leave no stone unturned to ensure full road-user compliance this Easter weekend. The department launched its Road Traffic Safety Campaign targeting those driving under the influence of alcohol. The department’s Acting Chief Director of Transport Regulation, Makwetu Mxi, says they will be working around the clock during the course of the long weekend to enforce compliance and reduce road fatalities. “We have ensured that we rope in all the relevant law enforcement agencies. As such, all of them are here now. As we speak, throughout the province, our teams are moving to ensure visibility, random inspections and stop-and-check at anytime and anywhere,” Mxi says. Some motorists have welcomed the provincial government’s road safety campaign. “We are very happy with what they are doing and they should do it more and be visible and it keeps us safe. It’s for the safety of all road users because its busy here so we can be safe,” they say. Gauteng authorities pleased In Gauteng, traffic police say they’re pleased with the level of compliance by travellers. Officials say so far, most are adhering to lockdown regulations by wearing masks and sanitising. Earlier on Friday, traffic volumes on the N1 north-bound were slightly eased. About 1 500 to 2 000 vehicles were passing through the tollgates on the N1 to Limpopo. Traffic officials say they’ve not experienced COVID-19 non-compliance. This includes busses which are only allowed to load 70% of their capacity. However, there are some challenges. “I really want to commend some of our motorists, we see them wearing masks, sanitising. However, we have a problem in one area. The curfew still applies. It is not expected for members of the public to be travelling on our road after 12 or before 4am. But you know we get lousy excuses that I got stuck; I was late for something so we’re still saying to them – they still need to be confined to their places of residence between 12 midnight and 4am,” says Gauteng Traffic Police Spokesperson, Sello Maremane. Motorists have been urged to exercise caution and vigilance at all times. Traffic officials have warned against reckless and negligent driving, speeding, unsafe overtaking and drunken driving – as these are some of the major contributors to road fatalities.