Traffic police have had their hands full manning major routes in KwaZulu-Natal since Friday night as visitors continue to stream into the province for leisure and religious gatherings. At least 9 000 vehicles have been stopped by police in roadblocks so far. With no time wasted, errant motorists handcuffed, some driving unlicensed vehicles, others under the influence of alcohol. Four major roadblocks were held in Durban, Ladysmith, eMpangeni and Pietermaritzburg. Just more than 700 drivers were charged for various offences, 58 of them were nabbed for drunken driving; 64 did not have required documentation, while 40 vehicles were suspended for not being roadworthy. KZN Road Traffic Inspectorate Director, Victor Chetty, says the main objective is to ensure that motorists comply with COVID-19 regulations. “Our aim and objective is to ensure that our visitors and motorists in the province of KZN comply with the regulations of COVID-19 protocols as well as Road Traffic Act in terms of drinking and driving. So drinking and driving is an issue for us in the province and fatalities. Our intention is to ensure motorists on our roads are sober,” says Chetty. He says drunken driving remains a huge problem. “Throughout the province, we have operations as we speak and I must indicate to the motoring public and the country, we are checking driving and drinking and we are serious about driving while in the influence of alcohol.” Traffic officials continue to monitor roads as holidaymakers are expected to return to their workplaces in the next two days. Those arrested will be appearing in various courts on Tuesday. Traffic update in KZN with Victor Chetty:  20 arrested in Gauteng Gauteng traffic police arrested 20 people for driving under the influence of alcohol last night in Carletonville, west of Johannesburg. Eleven people have died so far on Gauteng roads since Thursday evening. Authorities are urging road users to obey road rules to avoid unnecessary accidents. Gauteng Traffic Police spokesperson, Sello Maremane, says traffic is flowing on all provincial major routes. “Today we have arrested five people for over speeding. A 53-year-old man has been arrested for driving 180 km/h on a 120 km/h zone. That was on the N1 next to Centurion,” he adds. Gauteng traffic police on the beat: 