The embattled ANC Secretary-General Ace Magashule will on Thursday visit Former President Jacob Zuma in Nkandla, in KwaZulu-Natal. This is part of Magashule’s consultative meetings with party elders. He met former ANC Treasurer General, Matthews Phosa, on Tuesday and Zuma is next on the list. Magashule and his co-accused face several charges of fraud, corruption and money laundering relating to the alleged irregular awarding of the more than R250 million Free State asbestos roofing audit contract. The alleged crime was committed during Magashule’s tenure as the Free State Premier. The ANC SG is one of various governing party members who have less than 15 days to vacate their positions or face suspension from the party, as per its step-aside resolution. He recently widened the scope of those who should step aside, issuing an instruction that even those who have been implicated or alleged to be involved in wrongdoing but not yet charged must also go. Magashule has written to the governing party’s branch secretaries, requesting lists of members who have been implicated in wrongdoing. He gave them until today at 5pm to submit the names. Below is a discussion on the request:  However, the ANC’s National Working Committee maintains – only those charged should step aside. On Wednesday, it released the party’s policy on the matter, clarifying its stance. “Where a public representative, office-bearer or member has been indicted to appear in a court of law on any charge, the Secretary General or Provincial Secretary, acting on the authority of the NEC, the NWC, the PEC, or the PWC, if satisfied that the temporary suspension of such public representative, office-bearer or member would be in the best interest of the Organisation, may suspend such public representative, elected office-bearer or member and impose terms and conditions to regulate their participation and conduct during the suspension,” says the party. It says the decision to step aside, must be reviewed periodically by the NEC, NWC, PEC or PWC at least once per year, or from time to time at the request of the member, office-bearer, or public representative. Below are the governing party’s guidelines of its step-aside policy:  