Former IFP president Mangosuthu Buthelezi has paid tribute to KwaZulu-Natal’s first premier Dr Frank Mdlalose who died from COVID-19 related complications in hospital yesterday at the age of 89. Buthelezi says in a statement that Mdlalose’s wife, Eunice, is also in hospital with COVID-19. Buthelezi has conveyed his condolences to Mdlalose’s daughter Makhosazana. Mdlalose served as KwaZulu-Natal premier from 1994 to 1997. He stepped aside as premier and national chairperson of the IFP due to ill-health. Buthelezi says Mdlalose was one of the IFP’s main negotiators at CODESA,  the talks that ushered in a democratic dispensation. Amid political violence between the ANC and IFP, Mdlalose and the ANC’s Jacob Zuma formed a peace foundation in 1991. Buthelezi says he is proud to have served alongside a leader of Mdlalose’s calibre. IFP on Mdlalose’s passing The news of his passing was broken by Mdlalose’s political home, the Inkatha Freedom Party (IFP) on Saturday night. Mdlalose became the head of the KwaZulu-Natal government after the ANC won the country’s first democratic elections in 1994. “It is with deep sadness that the IFP announces the passing of our former National Chairperson, Dr Frank Mdlalose, who has succumbed to COVID-19. We extend our condolences to his daughter, Ms Makhosazana Mdlalose, and to his wife who is currently in hospital fighting this virus. We pray for her and we wish her strength,” says the party in a statement. Described as an outstanding servant of South Africa, Mdlalose has served in the former KwaZulu government as the Minister of the Interior and then Minister of Health. “During the constitutional negotiations, he became one of the IFP’s main negotiators and was our country’s champion for federalism and the creation of provinces. When South Africa achieved democracy in 1994 and the electorate placed KwaZulu-Natal under the governance of the IFP, we appointed Dr Mdlalose as the first Premier of the Province,” says the IFP. He relinquished his premiership and IFP national chairperson position due to ill health, handing the premiership baton over to Dr Ben Ngubane who later joined the ANC. “We were proud when the national government appointed Dr Mdlalose as South Africa’s Ambassador to Egypt. Again, he served with distinction,” the IFP adds.