The African National Congress (ANC) in Ekurhuleni says the party’s National Executive Committee must rethink the step-aside resolution. It fears the move will plunge the organisation into chaos. There’s also a concern the resolution will create problems for councillor selection in branch meetings. This comes as the party is gearing up for the upcoming local government elections. The outspoken region says as the 30-day deadline for all charged leaders to step aside draws closer, no party member must celebrate. Party members who are charged with serious crimes will have to step aside by month-end, including Secretary-General Ace Magashule. Ekurhuleni Regional Secretary, TK Nciza, says councillor candidates could suddenly have criminal cases opened against them, for the individuals to be disqualified. “We happen to lead at local government levels, we know what happens at branch level, there’ll be accusations against counter-accusations. We will be running into police stations every day. That is going to mess up the movement, it is nice when you speak about Ace, he must step aside, he must stay. But let it happen to you, you will understand. At least if you want to talk to these things you must be able to say step aside up until what happens,” adds Nciza. ANC Gauteng Provincial Executive Committee Member, Vuyo Mhlakazi, says the NEC is failing to provide leadership and is constantly at loggerheads. “When the 30 days come to an end next week, we must continue to work and not all of us removed. But we must not mourn or dwell in the NEC’s failures. We are trying to unite the ANC but our national leaders are dividing us,” adds Mhlakazi. Call for ANC NEC to rethink step-aside resolution:  Ekurhuleni Regional Chairperson, Mzwandile Masina, says the NEC’s step-aside resolution is perceived as a purge against divergent views. “The Nasrec conference resolution must be implemented fully. At this point, it looks like there was an addendum to the NEC decision as opposed to what branches agreed on at Nasrec.” Majodina’s son The Ekurhuleni ANC officials’ call comes a day after two ANC MPs took strong action party Chief Whip, Pemmy Majodina, over her son’s PPE deal with the ANC Caucus. One opened a fraud case against her while the other laid a complained with the Public Protector. More on the uproar over the PPE saga in the video below: 