ANC President Cyril Ramaphosa has lauded the country’s churches for their efforts to preserve lives during the COVID-19 pandemic. Ramaphosa says churches have played an important role in the fight against the pandemic. “So thank you, ukuthi the churches in our country have been complying with the regulations of COVID-19 and you have been at the forefront of making sure the virus does not spread. Siyanibulela nonke as the churches of our country and you have been leading the path and you have been saving lives and spreading the message. So, thank you, thank you very much mfundisi for the leadership that you have been showing,” he says. He was speaking at the Meadowlands Methodist Church in Soweto, Johannesburg, as part of the ANC’s tribute to the late struggle stalwart, Winnie Madikizela-Mandela. It’s the third anniversary of Madikizela-Mandela’s death and the church is where the struggle stalwart spend her last Good Friday service. The Mother of the Nation, as she was affectionately known, was praised as the voice of defiance against White minority rule. In preserving her legacy, Ramaphosa vowed that the movement would forge unity. “If we tear this African National Congress apart, it will be of no use to anyone. That to me is the pointed message that I take away from this congregation today. You are actually admonishing us and saying to us, do not tear this ANC garment, this ANC tunic because once you tear it apart there will be nothing left of use.” ANC President attends Good Friday church service in honour of Winnie Madikizela-Mandela:  Before the church service, a wreath-laying service was held at Fourways Memorial Park as part of Madikizela-Mandela’s commemoration activities. Ramaphosa acknowledged that the governing party is going through a difficult period. Amid tensions over the ANC NEC’s decision that all party members charged with serious crimes must step aside, Ramaphosa appeared confident and says he is not worried about the party’s upcoming National General Council. “No…NGC’s are not about installing or removing anyone. National General Council is about , reviewing our policies, the implementation and where we are and then we have our policy conference and then we have our collective conference in 2022 and Samkele – I invite you to be there,” he told SABC News’ political reporter, Samkele Maseko. ANC Secretary General, Ace Magashule, and all leaders charged with corruption must step aside by the end of April. Some predict this will throw the party into turmoil. But the ANC president says the NEC is steaming ahead with uniting the party. “The unity project is not about to collapse. In fact, it is being super charged. The SG isn’t here because he is in Parys and doing all sorts of other things. It doesn’t mean that where there is an event all of us have to be here. The DP, National Chair and DSG are not here and sometimes am also not around,” the ANC President added. 