Police in Gauteng have disputed a newspaper article in which Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) MP, Dr Mbuyiseni Ndlozi, is accused of rape. The article alleged that a 23-year-old woman opened a case against Ndlozi after she was assaulted at a penthouse by a man named Quinton. According to the news report, the woman claims that she later found out that it was the EFF leader. The police say, while there is a rape case under investigation as per the newspaper report, Ndlozi is not a suspect in the case. Police Spokesperson, Mathapelo Peters, says the reporter behind the article in reference has not sought the comment of the Gauteng Provincial Head of Corporate Communications on this matter even after he was advised to do so. “Gauteng police distance themselves from an article in the Daily Sun wherein an EFF leader is accused of rape. We can confirm that the case of rape that is in reference was indeed opened and is under investigation. While police are not at liberty to disclose or confirm identities of victims/complainants and suspects, we can further confirm that Dr Ndlozi is not a suspect in this case.” Peters says the author of the article obtained a legal document, the affidavit, unlawfully and unethically as the document is confidential. The reported had also not interviewed the concerned victim. EFF reacts The EFF has welcomed the police statement, setting the record straight in the matter. The party says it is, however, concerned that the newspaper published defamatory information against Ndlozi and not even a withdrawal of the article will lessen the damage done to his reputation. In a statement, the party says it is aware of coordinated attempts to criminalise EFF leaders through false crime allegations. “The leadership of the EFF is fully aware that there are coordinated attempts to criminalise leaders of the EFF through false allegations of crime, including rape allegations. There are embedded elements within the state working with the establishments that are hellbent on linking EFF leaders to crime because they think such will prevent the unavoidable meteoric rise of the EFF to political power here in South Africa. We call on all the leaders of the EFF to be on alert because the enemy is out to get us.” The EFF says the Gender-Based Violence crisis is a huge problem in South Africa and as such, must never be used to fight political battles. EFF Statement On Nonsensical Allegations Of Rape Against Commissar Mbuyiseni Ndlozi pic.twitter.com/dQH1hMR46q — Economic Freedom Fighters (@EFFSouthAfrica) April 12, 2021 