The Free State ANC Youth League provincial task team is calling for the top brass of the ANC to expel the party’s Secretary General, Ace Magashule, and someone considered as his strong ally, Sam Mashinini. This follows the decision by the disbanded Free State ANC PEC to appeal the SCA decision that nullified the 2018 elective conference. Magashule has allegedly been supporting the disbanded PEC’s application in the Constitutional Court. The SCA in Bloemfontein found that bogus members participated in the disputed 2018 conference. Free State ANCYL Convener, Lonwabo Dyi, says there’s a well-orchestrated plan by Magashule and Mashinini to collapse the province. “We call for the immediate suspension or expulsion of comrade Mashinini and comrade Secretary-General of the ANC for displaying a high level of ill–discipline within the congress movement, when the National Working Task Team of the ANC has taken a decision for them to defeat means of enforcing unity in the Free State province. We also call for comrade Kgalema (Motlanthe) not to be dismayed and continue with the talks which are concerning two groups in the Free State,” Dyi adds. The call for strong action against Magashule comes a day after the ANC Interim Provincial Committee (IPC) in the North West temporarily suspended the membership of former premier and ANC provincial chairperson, Supra Mahumapelo. Mahumapelo allegedly contradicted the IPC’s instruction that JB Marks Local Municipality Mayor, Kgotso Khumalo, vacates office over fraud and corruption charges. Mahumapelo’s suspension letter, which is in the possession of SABC NEWS, indicates that he is not allowed to participate in any party activities. He is undergoing a disciplinary hearing. Yesterday, his supporters protested outside the offices of the IPC. They believe the charges against him have no substance:  The party says his suspension will remain in place, until his disciplinary case has been concluded. IPC Co-ordinator, Hlomane Chauke, says Mahumapelo is one of six people that had their membership suspended. Another is Premier Job Mokgoro. “Supra is one of those that we have temporarily suspended his membership due to ill-discipline and we have referred the matter to the disciplinary committee. So, we don’t want to comment further. The fact is that he is charged and therefore, the DC will then deal with that matter. We have suspended his membership and it is not an issue about him.” Below is a discussion on Mokgoro’s suspension: 