Messages of condolences are being sent to struggle stalwart Cheryl Carolus, whose husband Graeme Bloch, died at Constantiaberg Hospital in Cape Town today. The 65-year-old Bloch died following a long illness. His brother, Lance, broke the news of his passing on social media. Deeply saddened by the news of the passing of struggle stalwart Graeme Bloch. Heartfelt condolences to his wife Cheryl Carolus, the rest of the family, friends and the ANC collective. May his resolute soul #RIP #RIPGraemeBloch pic.twitter.com/kDDFEVF6Xs — Prof Thuli Madonsela (@ThuliMadonsela3) April 9, 2021  Bloch was actively involved in the struggle for liberation, especially in the 80s. @MYANC mourns the passing of Comrade Graeme Bloch. #RIPGraemeBloch pic.twitter.com/8JAQ4ZkFXl — African National Congress (@MYANC) April 9, 2021  He was part of the End Conscription Campaign against military deployment under apartheid. “Comrade Graeme Bloch was one of the outstanding activists and member of the ANC, a committed revolutionary democrat in the struggle against racism in this country especially fighting against apartheid. He was one of those actively involved in the End Conscription Campaign,” says Western Cape ANC Convenor, Lerumo Kalako. Bloch was married to former ANC Deputy Secretary-General, Cheryl Carolus, for 31 years. Family spokesperson and former Finance Minister, Trevor Manuel, says Bloch will be remembered for his self-sacrifice. “Graeme was an activist already at high school, at UCT he was the part of the group of students arrested and tortured after a march in solidarity in 1976 soon thereafter and this was at the age of 20 Graeme was banned for five years,” says Manuel. Veteran journalist, Dennis Cruywagen, says he has fond memories of Bloch. “He was prepared to put aside his White privilege and to join us in the struggle and to fight for liberty and equality and freedom for all, he was a prominent member of the UDF, he was a prominent member of the National Education Crisis Committee and he was a prominent member of the end conscription campaign,” says Cruywagen. We are deeply saddened by the passing of one of our longtime champions, Comrade Graeme Bloch. Graeme served as an EE board member in 2011/2012. pic.twitter.com/GohtsjLxGm — Equal Education (@equal_education) April 9, 2021  In a statement, President Cyril Ramaphosa says South Africa will always remember with admiration his contribution to the liberation struggle. He also praised Bloch’s contribution in the education sector towards adopting policies that opened the doors to millions of historically excluded people.