ANC veteran and businessman, Tokyo Sexwale, has refuted statements by the South African Reserve Bank and the National Treasury, dismissing his claims that money held in a heritage fund has been stolen. Sexwale claims that the funds of the White Spiritual Boy Fund were held in private accounts at the SARB and were unlawfully transferred into six accounts of commercial banks and individuals. Sexwale says he is unable to divulge all the details concerning the fund as the matter is under investigation by the Hawks. #TokyoSexwale says there are 12 zeros in the fund. The police are investigating who is involved in stealing the money, he says. He says he is not authorised to give out the case number. TS says “the crime scene is inside the Reserve Bank” #sabcnews — Glory Sefako-Musi (@glorysefako) April 22, 2021  Sexwale was briefing the media in Midrand. The ANC veteran claims that the alleged Heritage funds were meant to boost the COVID-19 relief grant from R350 a month to R2 700, support infrastructure development and other social support. Sexwale says he reported the matter to Finance Minister Tito Mboweni in a letter and is yet to received a response. Someone in the audience who says he is a shareholder at the Reserve Bank says the fund exists and says the funds in the account could be 15 zeros #sabcnews pic.twitter.com/jrROYcDIsW — Glory Sefako-Musi (@glorysefako) April 22, 2021  Earlier this week, the Reserve Bank and National Treasury dismissed claims of the existence of the “White Spiritual Boy Fund” in a joint statement, pointing out that Sexwale may have been scammed. Sexwale has read a message he wrote to President Cyril Ramaphosa’, who also did not respond to his claims. #TokyoSexwale says this whatsapp message was sent to the president. There was no response, he says. He says this is after alerts that the stolen money is finding it way back to SA dressed as investments. #sabcnews pic.twitter.com/FL7hCp4x6a — Glory Sefako-Musi (@glorysefako) April 22, 2021  Sexwale says he manages the funds with Goodwin Webb. He has rejected assertions that he was making claims because he wants to run for the ANC presidency. He says he is done with that part of politics. Below is the full briefing: 