Political analyst Sethulego Matebesi says African National Congress (ANC) Secretary-General Ace Magashule is not likely to voluntarily step aside from his position. Earlier this week, Magashule said he would consult former leaders of the governing party on the National Executive Committee’s (NEC) instruction that he should step aside within 30 days or face suspension. On Monday,  the party’s NEC instructed all members who are facing serious criminal charges in different courts to step aside. They include Magashule, MP Bongani Bongo, former eThekwini Mayor Zandile Gumede and Limpopo Treasurer Danny Msiza. Magashule’s charges relate to an over R250 million asbestos roofing contract when he was Free State premier. Matebesi says Magashule’s consultations are a way of buying time because he is determined to fight back. “It will be highly unlikely for Magashule to step down. This whole notion of him saying he will still consult is only just but a footnote type of action. I think he’s deeply reflecting on what type of fight action he must take actually. I can’t see that Magashule will just voluntarily step down.” Magashule to consult with former ANC leaders:  SANCO supports Magashule Civic organisation, SANCO in the Free State has reiterated its support for Magashule. SANCO Chairperson Gift Poli says they are planning to galvanise support in the province against Magashule’s stepping aside. “We strongly believe that this step aside is designed to remove comrade Ace Magashule, that is why we are saying we will be going to our branches, talking to our people, going street by street and house by house, explaining what is the implication of the step aside. Comrade Magashule is elected by branches of the ANC, even if it is a personal choice but ultimately the branch must decide his fate,” says Poli. Magashule rejected claims that he would leave the ANC and form his own party over the step aside resolution. The ANC Secretary-General told reporters in Soweto that he will remain an ANC member until he dies and accepts the decision of the ANC NEC for him to step aside.