The Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) has described the late first KwaZulu-Natal premier and IFP stalwart Frank Mdlalose as the person that laid the foundation for the provincial government. Eighty-nine-year-old Mdlalose died from COVID-19 related complications in hospital. His wife is also in hospital with the virus. Prior to the democratic dispensation, Mdlalose served as Minister of Interior in the then KwaZulu government. Mdlalose also once served as IFP national chairperson. KwaZulu-Natal EFF chairperson Vusi Khoza says, “We know him as one of the pioneers since he led even before democracy in this province. We would like to send our heartfelt condolences to the Mdlalose family and relatives and indeed to the whole KZN for the passing of this long-serving leader and servant of the people.” DA pays tribute Meanwhile, KwaZulu-Natal Democratic Alliance (DA) leader Francois Rodgers says Mdlalose’s work to put together a provincial government and its institutions was not easy. “You know that was the start of democracy so it would have been a challenging time for anybody. But I think Frank’s leadership style and I think his interest in the community and the belief he had in the people of KZN and for putting people of KZN first, I think that stood in really good stead in his duties and responsibilities as the first Premier of KZN in the new democracy.” Buthelezi pays tribute Former IFP president Mangosuthu Buthelezi has paid tribute to Mdlalose. Buthelezi says in a statement that Mdlalose’s wife, Eunice, is also in hospital with COVID-19. Buthelezi has conveyed his condolences to Mdlalose’s daughter Makhosazana. Mdlalose served as KwaZulu-Natal premier from 1994 to 1997. He stepped aside as premier and national chairperson of the IFP due to ill-health. Buthelezi says Mdlalose was one of the IFP’s main negotiators at CODESA,  the talks that ushered in a democratic dispensation. Amid political violence between the ANC and IFP, Mdlalose and the ANC’s Jacob Zuma formed a peace foundation in 1991. Buthelezi says he is proud to have served alongside a leader of Mdlalose’s calibre. IFP on Mdlalose’s passing The news of his passing was broken by Mdlalose’s political home, the Inkatha Freedom Party (IFP) on Saturday night. Mdlalose became the head of the KwaZulu-Natal government after the ANC won the country’s first democratic elections in 1994. “It is with deep sadness that the IFP announces the passing of our former National Chairperson, Dr Frank Mdlalose, who has succumbed to COVID-19. We extend our condolences to his daughter, Ms Makhosazana Mdlalose, and to his wife who is currently in hospital fighting this virus. We pray for her and we wish her strength,” says the party in a statement. Described as an outstanding servant of South Africa, Mdlalose has served in the former KwaZulu government as the Minister of the Interior and then Minister of Health. A look at Mdlalose’s political life:  “During the constitutional negotiations, he became one of the IFP’s main negotiators and was our country’s champion for federalism and the creation of provinces. When South Africa achieved democracy in 1994 and the electorate placed KwaZulu-Natal under the governance of the IFP, we appointed Dr Mdlalose as the first Premier of the Province,” says the IFP. He relinquished his premiership and IFP national chairperson position due to ill health, handing the premiership baton over to Dr Ben Ngubane who later joined the ANC. “We were proud when the national government appointed Dr Mdlalose as South Africa’s Ambassador to Egypt. Again, he served with distinction,” the IFP adds. 