The Democratic Nursing Organisation of South Africa (Denosa) in Gauteng has questioned the timing of the fire which broke out at the Charlotte Maxeke hospital on Friday. The fire forced the hospital to transfer over 400 patients to neighbouring hospitals over the weekend. The hospital will remain closed for the remainder of the week. The Union alleges that the fire was due to non-compliance with safety regulations. Denosa Gauteng chairperson Simphiwe Gada is calling for a thorough investigation. Gada says, “We question the timing as well as the place where the fire took place. Our reasoning is informed by the fact that at Carletonville Hospital – the fire took place at exactly the same place as Charlotte Maxeke – at a storage…” “Is this an act of God or is it man-made and we can only conclude that this is man-made and we are calling on law enforcement agencies and those who specialise in fire to leave no stone unturned,” added Gada. Charlotte Maxeke Academic Hospital temporarily closed following a fire:  Closure of Charlotte Maxeke Academic Hospital is a major setback: Makhura Gauteng Premier David Makhura says the temporary closure of the Charlotte Maxeke Academic Hospital in Johannesburg is a major setback as it plays a vital role in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic.  09:15 Visuals of Firefighters at #CharlotteMaxeke pic.twitter.com/ekFN3OVh9y — Gauteng Health (@GautengHealth) April 17, 2021  07:15 Visuals from Charlotte Maxeka Hospital. pic.twitter.com/AG545dwQ82 — Gauteng Health (@GautengHealth) April 17, 2021  Staff and patients at Charlotte Maxeke transferred to other hospitals Gauteng Health MEC Nomathemba Mokgethi says doctors and the staff have also been transferred with patients to the other hospitals. The blaze is believed to have initially broken out in the hospital’s dispensary stores and later reignited and spread to other parts of the institution. The hospital has been closed for seven days to allow for an assessment of the situation before on-site services can be restored. Mokgethi says there will be a continuation of healthcare. Makhura’s speaks to journalists outside the hospital: 