The High Court in Johannesburg has dismissed with costs former Gauteng Health MEC Bandile Masuku’s bid to overturn a Special Investigating Unit (SIU) report that led to his dismissal in October 2020. SABC News reporter Samkele Maseko has more: Former Gauteng MEC of Health #BandileMasuku has failed to set aide the SIU Report that led to him being fired by Premier David Makhura on the PPE tender fraud in province that involved Royal Bhaca Projects. Makhura had said he would reinstate Masuku if cleared. #sabcnews pic.twitter.com/YJI8OinlOl — #TheLordOfTheMedia (@samkelemaseko) April 12, 2021  The report links Masuku to corruption related to the procurement of Personal Protective Equipment in the province. In October 2020, Gauteng Premier David Makhura fired Masuku after the SIU found that he had failed in his duty to conduct oversight on Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) tenders worth R125 million. Masuku had been tasked with fixing the dysfunctional health department which was rocked by corruption and procurement irregularities. Advocate William Mukhari argued on behalf of Masuku that the SIU relied on hearsay and not evidence, to conclude that Masuku had failed to perform his oversight duties. SIU spokesperson Kaizer Kganyago has described the court ruling as a victory for law enforcement. “We are really given a new lease of life to basically continue investigations that we are doing in Gauteng and all the other provinces. We base everything that we do on integrity and on the evidence before us.” “We’ve always said our investigations are not against individuals but we work on the basis of evidence and if the evidence leads us to you, we will follow you and get whatever the state has suffered,” explains Kganyago.  #KnowYourSIU| The High Court of South Africa: Gauteng Division, Pretoria has dismissed an application by former @GautengHealth MEC Dr Bandile Masuku challenging #SIUReport on PPE investigations outcome with costs, including the costs of two counsels. Details to follow. — Special Investigating Unit (SIU) (@RSASIU) April 12, 2021 