A memorial service for 15-year-old Lufuno Mavhunga will be held on Friday morning at Mbilwi Secondary School in Limpopo. Mavhunga took an overdose of medication hours after she arrived home from school on Monday, following an incident in which she was assaulted by another learner earlier that day. The video showing the incident went viral on social media. She later died upon arrival at the nearby Siloam Hospital. The incident happened outside the school premises on Monday, sparking public outcry, with the hashtag #JusticeForLufuno trending on social media. It also reignited the debate on violence in South Africa. According to a survey by Global polling group, Gallup, released in late 2020 – South Africa ranked the fifth most dangerous country out of 144 states covered. Gender-Based Violence is also prevalent in the country, with concerns that children grow up exposed to such incidents and imitate their parents’ actions. Tackling bullying in schools with #StopBullying:  Lufuno will be laid to rest on Saturday. Her assailant, who was caught on camera assaulting, will appear in Thohoyandou Magistrate’s Court for the first time today. The 15-year-old learner was arrested on a charge of assault after she was shown in a video assaulting Mavhunga. Members of the public will not be allowed in court during the appearance of the minor who is seen on the video assaulting Lufuno, in accordance to the Child Justice Act. A 15-year-old learner from Mbilwi secondary school at Sibasa will make her first appearance in the Thohoyandou Magistrate’s Court this morning #sabcnews — SAfm news (@SAfmnews) April 16, 2021  Video shows learner assaulting another learner at Limpopo school:  Lufuno’s family has called on the school to institute disciplinary proceedings against the learner. People are beautiful in the own way ~ Lufuno Mavhunga #lufunomavhunga pic.twitter.com/Xs5QoDdVuT — BrownSkinGirl mf.  (@Shaan_Mampe) April 16, 2021  Mavhunga family disappointed with how the school handled the bullying issue: 