Politically and legally embattled African National Congress (ANC) Secretary-General Ace Magashule’s home region Fezile Dabi says it will interdict the party’s National Executive Committee (NEC) if Magashule steps aside. Magashule is one of ANC leaders who have until the end of this month to step aside until their corruption cases are finalised. They will be suspended from the governing party should they fail to voluntarily do so. The Fezile Dabi Regional Task team is, however, having none of this. The Regional Task team says it has consulted branches on the political tussles in the ANC and Magashule’s future. The majority of the branches say the ANC must be served with an interdict to prevent Magashule from stepping aside as he faces fraud, corruption and money laundering charges. “Branches of the ANC give the RTT a mandate, the leadership must ensure that such a mandate is implemented. We are going to interdict that thing. We just waiting for the due date and we are going to interdict that decision because we know the decisions we took at Nasrec and braches are talking about interdicting because of the decisions they took,” says Deputy Regional Coordinator, Reagan Booysens. SABC News’ Samkele Maseko elaborates on this story:  ‘Step-aside resolution’ Branches in Fezile Dabi have gone a step further by accusing the ANC NEC of being selective in the implementation of the step-aside resolution. Regional Convener, Jabu Sigasa, says branches want an urgent National General Council to deliberate on Magashule’s future. “This step-aside issue is very much selective. We are very much in support of our secretary-general. He will remain as the SG. We are calling for an urgent NGC to sit where ANC branches will be consulted on this step-aside. So we are in full support of the SG as our SG until the next conference. What is happening is not really good,” adds Sigasa. The Fezile Dabi Region has also endorsed the Provincial Chairperson Sam Mashinini’s decision to appeal the Supreme Court judgment disbanding the Provincial Executive Committee. It, however, remains to be seen if this will happen as the ANC’s highest decision-making structure, the NEC, has instructed the PEC not to approach the Constitutional Court over the ruling.