Former Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa (Prasa) CEO Lucky Montana will return to the Commission of Inquiry into State Capture to give Prasa-related evidence on Tuesday. On Friday, the former CEO threw a list of allegations against former Prasa Board Chair Popo Molefe. He accused Molefe of being the mastermind behind the collapse of the State-owned Passenger Rail Agency, calling him the most corrupt Board chair. Montana told the Commission he had also laid criminal charges and opened a case against his former boss at the Hillbrow Police Station. He told the Commission that Molefe was golf buddies with businessman Roy Moodley who secured numerous irregular tenders from Prasa through his company Royal Security. Montana says,  “I don’t play golf, I’ve never been to those events, the last time I was on a golf course was when I was caddie at the Irene Club in Pretoria. I used to get into a train in Mamelodi and travel back. Chair, so these things about golf, Roy Moodley has got nothing to do with me Chair, it’s their discussion and I think the two of them must come and tell the Chair how did they meet which golf, how did they pay for those things, it has nothing to do with me, I’ve never been involved in any golf activity with Mr Moodley.” Biased On Friday, Montana accused the Judicial Commission of Inquiry into Allegations of State Capture of being biased and its investigative team of failing to do its job. On Friday morning, Montana accused other witnesses who have appeared before the Commission of driving an agenda against him and influencing the inquiry. He says the country needed leadership with courage. Deputy Chief Justice of the Commission Raymond Zondo said he will investigate some of the concerns raised by Montana and added that he was keen to hear all sides of the story. Zondo said it would be wrong for the commission to admit that it never made mistakes. VIDEO: Montana testified before the commission: Intelligence Inspector-General, Dr Setlhomamaru Dintwe, is also scheduled to testify at the judicial Commission of Inquiry into State Capture in Johannesburg on Tuesday.