South Africa has sent troops to Mozambique following an attack by militants on a multi-billion-rand off-shore project in the north of the country. President Cyril Ramaphosa held an urgent meeting with SANDF officials on Saturday to discuss the attack in Palma, Mozambique. Ramaphosa said, “We are attending to the matter on an ongoing basis. We have already attended to the issue of evacuating those South Africans who are stranded in Mozambique. And one of those who passed away, the SANDF has brought him back. We remain involved in securing the safety of our people in Mozambique.” Ramaphosa on the Mozambique situation:  A few weeks ago, the SA Navy ramped up anti-piracy patrols in the Mozambique Channel and said the patrols and continued deployment of 200 soldiers, under the SANDF’s Operation Copper, would continue until March 2023. Operation Copper began in 2011 to combat rising security threats in the channel. Survivors from Palma attack arrive in Pemba A boat carrying more than 1000 survivors of a highly organised, deadly attack by militant group-linked insurgents in northern Mozambique arrived in the port of Pemba on Thursday, a Reuters reporter and a diplomatic source said. Aid workers were at the crowded port to give food to those disembarking from the green and white ferry, while police and soldiers kept control of crowds of people excited to see their relatives rescued after the attack that began last week in Palma, the reporter said.  The militant group insurgents have been increasingly active in the surrounding province of Cabo Delgado since 2017, although it is unclear whether they have a unified aim or what specifically they are fighting for. The district where Palma is located is adjacent to natural gas projects worth $60 billion. It is home to around 110 000 people according to United Nations estimates, of whom more than 40 000 sought shelter there after fleeing other attacks elsewhere. Aid groups believe the attack has displaced tens of thousands of people, many of whom fled into dense forest or attempted to escape by sea. Hundreds, including many foreign workers, have been evacuated by air. The fighting was continuing as recently as Tuesday, said security sources involved in rescue efforts and the United Nations, while Portugal is reportedly ready to send 60 soldiers to help train armed forces in Cabo Delgado. Reuters has not been able to independently verify the accounts from Palma. Most means of communication to the town were cut off after the attack began last Wednesday. Phone calls to Mozambique’s government and security officials went unanswered on Thursday. A diplomatic source with direct knowledge of the rescue operation said there were roughly 1 200 people on board, including 300 children and 400 women. The source said all those on board were people displaced by the violence – additional reporting by Reuters