The wife of the late Collins Khosa who died after an altercation with soldiers in Alexandra, north of Johannesburg, during the hard lockdown last April, says the family still does not have closure. Glacia Khosa says the family is heartbroken that no one has been arrested for his death. Khosa died from a blunt force trauma to the head after being assaulted, allegedly by soldiers who were searching for liquor at his home. The Military Ombud found that the soldiers contravened operational orders by entering Khosa’s home without the police. Glacia Khosa says: “As his wife, there is nothing we can do to bring him back, he is gone, there are difficulties and challenges especially with raising the children, there is nothing we can do to bring him back, we just have to accept.” Heartbroken, sad and in search of answers, Glacia questions why there are delays in arresting the perpetrators of her husband’s murder. “It is very painful that it has been a year, (and) no one has been arrested. It is so difficult. We don’t know what is happening. At least, if we had answers on what happened and how far the case is, perhaps our souls would be at ease. We will find peace, but there are no answers,” she says. SANDF’s reaction to Military Ombudsman’s report on Collins Khosa:  Khosa was a father of two sons aged 12 and 13-years-old. The two boys appeared emotional and shed soft tears during the SABC News interview with their mother. Glacia Khosa says her husband’s death has been hard on their two sons who stay with her at Mavele village outside Tzaneen in Limpopo. “Our lives have changed completely since he left us. There is no joy anymore. There is no communication with children, we don’t know how to advise the children, they miss their father.” The military Ombud found, in August last year, that the soldiers’ conduct contravened operational orders as they were required to enter the Khosa property along with police officials. His death sparked demands that the military act with sensitivity while enforcing lockdown regulations. The Khosa family still battles to cope with his loss, saying they would like to see justice being served. Below is SABC News’ exclusive interview with Glacia Khosa in 2020: 