Suspended Western Cape DA leader and provincial Transport Minister Bonginkosi Madikizela has broken his silence since news broke last week that he allegedly lied about his qualifications. His biography on the Western Cape government website says Madikizela had obtained a Bachelor of Commerce Degree in Human Resource Management.  However, it has since emerged that he doesn’t have the degree. Taking accountability for the matter, in a Facebook post Madikizela says to err is human, and “when you’ve made a mistake, you humble yourself and ask for forgiveness.” He has apologised for failing to disclose that he did not complete the Bachelor of Commerce Degree. He says the so-called exposé has everything to do with the Cape Town mayoral contest. He says this is what he has to go through every time he contests for a position in the party or in government. Madikizela says he will allow the process to unfold and accept the punishment, which he hopes will fit the crime. The DA’s Federal Legal Commission is investigating the matter. In the video below, DA’s Federal Council Chair, Helen Zille, says she was not aware of any discrepancies when Madikizela was appointed and having a degree was not a requirement for a cabinet position:  Zille’s remarks come as the party’s Chief Whip, Natasha Mazzone, is also under scrutiny over her qualifications. She is accused of also having falsified her qualifications. A charge DA leader John Steenhuisen has dismissed as false. “The issue around Mazzone is completely different its driven by fake news and by the Good Party who unfortunately didn’t get their facts right. It is very clear that miss Mazzone being the victim of a malicious smear campaign by the Good Party. I think it’s unfortunate as well that Good chose to do so on the same day that her father passed away. Thinking that she wouldn’t be able to respond thankfully for her she responded vigorously and set out the facts very clearly,” says Steenhuisen. Steenhuisen says any member of the party with falsified qualifications will be ousted: 