Government has called for calm in Mkhondo, formerly Piet Retief, in Mpumalanga after violent protests following the killing of two brothers on a farm last month. Protestors shut down the town ahead of the five accused’s bail hearing set down for next week. The five men face two counts of murder and one of defeating the ends of justice. Briefing the media on last night’s Cabinet meeting, acting Minister in the Presidency, Khumbudzo Ntshavheni, told the media in Pretoria that cabinet would like to see the law take its course. “Cabinet condemns the recent senseless killing of two brothers Zenzele and Amos Coka on a farm in Mpumalanga. The siblings were part of (the) locals seeking for employment in the farm. Cabinet commended police for the quick response in arresting the alleged offenders who have since appeared in the Piet Retief Magistrate’s Court. Cabinet called for calm in the community to allow justice to take its course and for the arrested face the full might of the law,” says the Minister. Discussing rights of farm dwellers with Siya Sithole:  On unemployment, Ntshavheni says the government is determined to continue to seek ways of creating jobs particularly for the youth. This comes as many people lost jobs during the coronavirus pandemic. “The employment stimulus has supported the livelihoods of over 60  539 beneficiaries through the transfer of support, including production vouchers for subsistence farmers. Over 300 000 of these opportunities came from placing young people as assistance in schools across the country through the basic education initiative. This has played an important role in strengthening the learning environment in schools,” she says. Cabinet has committed to improve the state of all ports in South Africa in an effort to improve the country’s economy. Ntshavheni says President Cyril Ramaphosa’s recent visit to the Port of Durban and the Transnet Headquarters is a sign that the government is serious about alleviating congestion at the ports.