African National Congress (ANC) president Cyril Ramaphosa is expected to lead a by-election campaign in Hammersdale in the west of the eThekwini municipality later on Thursday. Voters will go to the polls on the 21st of April. This round of by-elections will be the first to be held after lockdown measures were tightened due to the second wave of coronavirus (COVID-19) infections in December. The Electoral Commission (IEC) had earlier this year suspended by-elections as the country battled with the second wave of COVID-19 infections. ANC president Ramaphosa to lead a by-election campaign in west of Durban:  The ANC president will be drumming up support for his party in the by-election in the eThekwini metro’s ward 6. Ramaphosa is expected to engage with the community. He will also embark on a door-to-door campaign. Later on Thursday night, the ANC president will be attending a meeting of the Provincial Executive Committee (PEC). It is Ramaphosa’s first visit to the province after the NEC decision that office bearers must step aside if they face serious criminal charges. Some members of the KwaZulu-Natal PEC might be affected by the step-aside resolution as they are facing various charges in courts. Oversight Visit to Port of Durban #GrowSouthAfrica https://t.co/Xyqs88IWAh — Cyril Ramaphosa  #StaySafe (@CyrilRamaphosa) April 15, 2021  Voter registration Meanwhile, voter registration will continue on Sunday in parts of the Eastern Cape, Free State, Gauteng, Limpopo, KwaZulu-Natal and Mpumalanga ahead of by-elections on May 19. The IEC in KwaZulu-Natal has encouraged voters from seven wards in the province to register for the by-elections. Voter Educator at the IEC’s Durban branch, Dr Nonhlanhla Hlongwane, says voting on May 19 will be held under strict COVID–19 regulations. “Instead of the pen that we were using to mark voters, as they enter into the voting station, now we dip an earbud into the ink bottle and mark the voters’ thumb and discard it for every voter. We will also ensure social distancing and we will sanitise voters as they come through and vote at the voting stations.” ANC president leads a door-to-door campaign in Hammersdale township on Thursday: 