KwaZulu-Natal Premier Sihle Zikalala says while the people of the province are mourning the passing of the first premier Dr Frank Mdlalose, they must also celebrate his legacy. A look at Dr Mdlalose’s political life:  Mdlalose, who served as premier from 1994 to 1997, died of COVID-19 related complications in hospital yesterday at the age of 89. Zikalala has hailed Mdlalose for respecting the views of all members of the provincial legislature including those who are not members of the IFP. “We are saddened to receive the news of the passing of the first premier Dr. Mdlalose. He was a pillar of democracy and led with respect to all people as well as all other political parties. He worked for peace in KZN. He led with dignity and respect. While we are mourning his death, we must also celebrate his contribution to the fruition of democracy that our province is enjoying.” EFF credits Mdlalose for laying the foundation of KZN government The Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) has described the late first KwaZulu-Natal premier and IFP stalwart Frank Mdlalose as the person that laid the foundation for the provincial government. Eighty-nine-year-old Mdlalose died from COVID-19 related complications in hospital. His wife is also in hospital with the virus. Prior to the democratic dispensation, Mdlalose served as Minister of Interior in the then KwaZulu government. Mdlalose also once served as IFP national chairperson. KwaZulu-Natal EFF chairperson Vusi Khoza says, “We know him as one of the pioneers since he led even before democracy in this province. We would like to send our heartfelt condolences to the Mdlalose family and relatives and indeed to the whole KZN for the passing of this long-serving leader and servant of the people.” DA pays tribute Meanwhile, KwaZulu-Natal Democratic Alliance (DA) leader Francois Rodgers says Mdlalose’s work to put together a provincial government and its institutions was not easy. “You know that was the start of democracy so it would have been a challenging time for anybody. But I think Frank’s leadership style and I think his interest in the community and the belief he had in the people of KZN and for putting people of KZN first, I think that stood in really good stead in his duties and responsibilities as the first Premier of KZN in the new democracy.”