Health Minister Zweli Mkhize has launched the COVID-19 Electronic Vaccination Data System for people who are aged 60 and above. Essential workers, persons in congregate settings, those over 18 with comorbidities are also among those eligible to receive COVID-19 shots in SA’s second phase of its vaccine rollout programme. However for now, government wants to prioritise the registration of the elderly. “You must have your ID and medical aid card (if you have one) ready before you register. When you register, it is very important that you put in the correct cell phone number, the address where you live, and the correct medical aid number (if you have one). Remember that registration does not guarantee that you will be vaccinated immediately. We will use the Information you provide when you register to communicate with you about the vaccination program when necessary,” explains the Health Minister. The launch forms part of the Health Department’s preparations for the second phase of the vaccination roll-out programme. It will run from the 17th of next month. Mkhize says the launch is seen as a milestone for the vaccination campaign. “This is the first time in our democratic history that a major public health campaign will be supported by one digital system for all South Africans,” he adds. Mkhize has noted that there will be no distinctions between private and public users. “All South Africans, have or will all access the vaccines through the same process, by enlisting using this system – there will be no distinction between private and state healthcare users, with the exception that private health care users will input their medical aid details. The quality of services will be the same for all of us and the system will assign a vaccination site closest to our homes or where we work- not based on whether a particular site is a public or private facility,” he adds. Health Minister invites senior citizens to register:  To register on the website: 1. First make sure you have internet access.
2. You will need a smartphone, a tablet or a computer.
3. Connect to the internet and go to vaccine.enroll.health.gov.za. The welcome screen will guide you through the steps and this is what the demonstration team will show us shortly.
4. It is important to follow the instructions and put in all the details the system asks for.
5. When you are finished, the system will send an SMS to the phone number you provided. This SMS will confirm that you are registered.
This means that the system now has your details in a queue to be scheduled for your vaccine.
6. When it is your turn to be vaccinated, the system will send you another SMS with a date and the place where you will be vaccinated. If you put in the correct address, you will be sent to the vaccination centre that is closest to your home. Some of you may be directed to your place of work.
7. If you have problems you may contact the COVID-19 Hotline at 0800 029 999. A dedicated call centre for the EVDS is being finalized and that number will be announced and displayed on the EVDS portal when you register.