The family of the late Dr Frank Mdlalose has expressed their gratitude for the happy life they shared with him. Mdlalose, who was the first premier of KwaZulu-Natal (KZN), passed away in hospital from COVID-19-related complications on Saturday. Before being KZN’s first democratically elected premier in 1994, Mdlalose served as a minister in the erstwhile KwaZulu government. First KZN premier Dr Frank Mdlalose passes on:  His children, grandchildren and great-grandchildren say in a statement they are proud of the work he did as a politician and as a medical doctor in Newcastle. Mdlalose had asked them a month ago to gather every Saturday as a family. The family says despite his many co-morbidities, Mdlalose had a good life to reach the age of 89. Zikalala and MECs to visit the family KwaZulu-Natal Premier Sihle Zikalala is to lead a delegation of his MECs today to visit the family of the late former premier, in Madadeni, outside Newcastle in the north of the province. On Sunday, tributes continued to pour in for Dr Mdlalose. Zikalala described him as a pillar for democracy. “We are saddened to receive the news of the passing on of the first Premier, Dr Mdlalose. He was a pillar of democracy and led with respect to all people as well as all other political parties. He worked for peace in KZN. He led with dignity and respect. While we are mourning his death, we must also celebrate his contribution to the fruition of democracy that our province is enjoying.”   KwaZulu-Natal’s first Premier Dr Frank Mdlalose remembered:  IFP emeritus president, Mangosuthu Buthelezi, described Dr Mdlalose as an outstanding leader, both in the party and in government. “As one of our first members of Inkatha, he quickly showed his leadership qualities and ability to ignite a vision in our people. He served in my cabinet in the former KwaZulu government as the Minister of Interior and then the Minister of Health. During the constitutional negotiations he became one of the IFP’s main negotiators and was our country’s champion for federalism and the creation of provinces,” said IFP spokesperson, Mkhuleko Hlengwa. IFP expresses sadness on the passing of Dr Frank Mdlalose: 