The late ANC MPL and activist Jacqui Mofokeng has been described as a champion of anti-women abuse campaigns. Mofokeng died at her home last week Thursday, a day after her daughter, Thato, succumbed to COVID-19-related complications. ANC Women’s League members were among those in a drive-by memorial service at her home in Pretoria. Women clad in ANC colours arrived at Mofokeng’s home, chanting struggle songs as they passed by the house to drop off flowers. Among them was ANC NEC member, Nomvula Mokonyane, accompanied by Women’s league provincial and National leadership. Mokonyane describes Mofokeng’s passing as a great loss. “Firstly condolences to the Mofokeng and Moseneke family. We are here as the members of the ANC, ANC Women’s League to pay our respect on the sudden departure of comrade Jacqui and her loving daughter Thato. Unfortunately we can’t actually give her the send-off that we would have all loved to give her. We are here now to just say to the family we are with you. When the right time comes as in line with the family request we will come back and celebrate the good times and the fond memories we have of comrade Jacqui,” she says. ANC Women’s League leader, Bathabile Dlamini, says Mofokeng leaves behind a lasting legacy. “She also turned around the campaign on violence against women. We used to go to families and a few would go to courts and then she taught us the procedure that we have to go through if there is a case and paralegal, friend of the court, following the case. Talking also to the NPA about the progress of the case and that we are allowed to go to courts,” Dlamini adds. The family says Mofokeng was not that ill. She was due to finish her quarantine period the following day when she was found dead at her home. The family says she did not take well to the passing of her only child Thato. Family spokesperson, Thoko Moloto says the family is still coming to terms with the double tragedy. “As you can understand it’s very difficult for the family and it’s been a double blow. It was hard enough for the family to accept Thato’s passing but then to accept that of Jacqui was a, for a lack of better word, a blow, a double blow. It’s still surreal. We still cannot believe it. I don’t know what’s going to take for the family to come to terms with what has just hit us.” Mofokeng will be buried tomorrow in Pretoria, while her daughter will be cremated on Wednesday.