An Atteridgeville family, whose house was accidentally demolished by the Red Ants in 2017, will have their house rebuild by the end of next month. Gauteng Human Settlements MEC, Lebohang Maile, made this commitment while visiting the Mhlahla family. The family confronted Maile on Thursday on a visit to a vaccination site in the area. The Mhlahla family fought a long battle to get their family home rebuild. This after the house was accidentally demolished by the Red Ants in 2017. Below is a tweet from the PP office in June 2020: THREAD: The Gauteng Department of Housing and Human Settlements has been directed to rebuild a Pretoria man’s house after officials set the Red Ants on his property to raze it to the ground only to admit after the fact that this was done in error. pic.twitter.com/dodSWxBtXv — Public Protector SA (@PublicProtector) June 15, 2020  It was only after the intervention of the Public Protector and a SABC News expose that the Gauteng Human Settlements department was ordered to rebuild the house. Family member, Lindiwe Toheed says the family is relieved. “We had to go back and forth. Back and forth until we reach the agreement. So this was very frustrating. Having to console my parents and you know if something like this health-wise you will not be normal again. It’s something that affects you emotionally. It’s something that is very depressing. So we have been very very very badly affected by this thing.” Meanwhile, Maile says the Mhlahla family will have a home again within the next four weeks. “The family has got its own plan that they had already crafted. All we need is for submission to be made on Monday to the municipality and the AND chief whip will put pressure on the municipality. I will also phone the mayor to ask them to fast-track the approvals. Once that is done M Kona will definitely build the house between three and four weeks.” Public Protector, Busisiwe Mkhwebane says her office will be monitoring the Gauteng Human Settlements department on their promise to rebuild the Mhlahla’s home. Mkhwebane says it is important for government departments to respect her office. “It is important for the government to be responsive both to complainants and independent Constitutional institutions such as my office. Failure to do so renders the system unworkable, especially where the prejudice caused to the complainants is the common cause and the remedial action is not being challenged as is the case in the matter of the Mhlahlas.” 