Following two days of grilling at the Commission of Inquiry into allegations of State Capture, African National Congress (ANC) President Cyril Ramaphosa wrapped up his testimony on Thursday. He has admitted to some of the error of judgments the ruling party has made over the years, when answering questions relating to the ANC’s funding method, impact of cadre deployment, Gupta emails and the 2017 ANC Presidential Campaign, among other things. Here’s some of the takeaways from the ANC President’s testimony: HIGHLIGHTS: PRESIDENT CYRIL RAMAPHOSA Fatigue ANC FUNDING CADRE DEPLOYMENT GUPTA E-MAILS MPs TOE PARTY LINE FIGHT STATE CAPTURE African National Congress (ANC) President Cyril Ramaphosa has told the Commission of Inquiry into State Capture that the party’s Cadre Development and Deployment Policy is not unique to the party and cannot be faulted in principle. Ramaphosa says the party has for a long time recognised the risk presented by the lack of regulation with respect to political funding. Ramaphosa says despite the risks, any successful multiparty democracy requires funding in order to meet the needs of the electorate. President Ramaphosa has admitted that the ANC was delayed in its reaction to emerging evidence on the Gupta family’s influence in the country. Ramaphosa has also expressed regret that the ANC delayed in investigating state capture through Parliament’s committees when the allegations first emerged. However, the President has denied that this was due to deliberate resistance. The African National Congress (ANC) did not do enough to fight corruption and state capture, according to party President Cyril Ramaphosa. Ramaphosa made this acknowledgment at the State Capture Commission on Wednesday. sabcnews.com | SABC News Channel | SABC Radio news sabcnews.com | SABC News Channel | SABC Radio news (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document)); ‘No excuses for ANC’ Meanwhile, on Wednesday, Ramaphosa said he was not at the State Capture Commission to make excuses for the governing party or defend the indefensible. He reiterated the ANC and government’s support for the work of the Commission as part of strengthening the country’s democracy. Live stream of Thursday’s proceeding is below: 