Health Minister Zweli Mkhize says work to establish a No-Fault Compensation Fund has started. He was addressing the media in Cape Town. Once established, the fund will deal with medical complaints linked to COVID-19 vaccines. Mkhize says establishing it is an international trend and is also aimed at protecting South African citizens. He says, “You report to the office, assign compensation, no need for money, no lawyer, just walk through the office and it’s done. If you don’t like the decision, you can take the whole fund to court for review, but all the experts would’ve been there to assess you and I think the important thing is the protection of our people. It’s a human rights issue.” Second phase Western Cape Premier Alan Winde says the province is geared up and ready to roll out the second phase of the COVID-19 vaccination programme. Winde accompanied Mkhize on a site visit to the Lentegeur hospital in Cape Town to look at the province’s readiness to roll out the second phase. The second phase will prioritise senior citizens over 60. Mkhize says those over 40-years will also be eligible to be vaccinated later during phase two. Winde says the province’s plan is ready to be tested. “We have worked it out in the process flow, we are here to see it in action, what it looks like and ability to vax 30 – 40 000 citizens per day, that is what we need to get to. I only had Sisonke but from the middle to end of the month we pick up numbers on two various vax we have to administer.”   Electronic Vaccination Data System Last week, Mkhize launched the COVID-19 Electronic Vaccination Data System for people who are aged 60 and above. Essential workers, persons in congregate settings, those over 18 with comorbidities are also among those eligible to receive COVID-19 shots in SA’s second phase of its vaccine rollout programme. However, for now, government wants to prioritise the registration of the elderly. INFOGRAPHIC: COVID-19 Electronic Vaccination Data System ELECTRONIC VACCINATION DATA SYSTEM Requirements to register: AGE ﻿// You must be 60 years or older to register for the vaccine. IDENTITY// You must have your ID and medical aid card (if you have one) ready before you register. CONTACT// Put in correct address, cell phone and medical aid numbers when registering. CENTRE// Once registered you will be allocated to the relevent vaccination center. sabcnews.com | SABC News Channel | SABC Radio news SOURCE: StatsSA, ﻿Finfind, Medium Term Budget 2020 How to register ﻿on the website First, make sure you have internet access. Connect to the internet and go to vaccine.enroll.health.gov.za. The system will send an SMS confirming registration for vaccination. When it is your turn to be vaccinated, you will receive SMS with a date and the place. If you have problems you may contact the COVID-19 Hotline at 0800 029 999. Source: Department of Health You will need a smartphone, a tablet or a computer. (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document));