WARNING: This story contains graphic details that may upset some readers Two families are living in fear in the Marakong Village, in QwaQwa, in the Free State, following the brutal attack which left five people dead. The victims were shot and their bodies burned. The youngest survivor of the attack is an 11-month-old baby. Residents are still reeling from the gruesome attack. It was a night of blazing guns and arson attacks. A woman and two children were attacked inside a shack while an 11-month-old baby was bludgeoned with the knobkerrie. The baby is currently recovering in hospital. A relative to one of the deceased, Geelboi Lenyolosa, says he was woken up by gunshots. Lenyolosa says he initially thought of his livestock when he heard the commotion outside but realised there was a fire at his sister’s house. “My sister was lying at the corner and my niece lying at the other corner and nephew at another corner. It looks like he was trying to escape. What happened here is terrible but it’s now in the hands of the police. Even though we are hurting there’s nothing we can do,” he adds. One of the survivors, Ntebaleng Lephaka, hid inside her shack while the assailants were looking for her. Lephaka says she knows the identities of the attackers. “I am scared I don’t want to live here it’s painful. I don’t want to live here anymore.” Free State Police Spokesperson, Thandi Mbambo, says they have mobilised the 72-hour activation plan to track down the suspects. “On arrival there, the body of Moliehi Thoabala(38) was found with a gunshot wound to the stomach whilst her husband Safolo Mofokeng (36) was found burnt in the house. In another house, bodies of a mother, Relebohile Lemeko(48), her daughter, Masabata Lemeko(25), and son, Tatolo Lemeko (22) were found burnt inside a shack, whilst the 11-month-old grandson was allegedly hit with a knobkerrie in the nose and is currently receiving medical attention at a local hospital,” says Mbambo. The police say the motive for the killing is currently unknown and a case of murder, arson, and attempted murder has been registered for further investigation. “We request the public to assist us with information that may lead to the identification and/or arrest of the perpetrators. Anyone with information should please contact *Detective Captain Matlakala Mokwena at 0787593154* or Crime Stop at 08600 10111, alternatively send information via MySAPS App,” adds Mbambo.