The Democratic Alliance’s Federal Legal Commission will investigate allegations that Western Cape party leader, Bonginkosi Madikizela’s CV reflects a qualification that he does not hold. The party says it views this in a serious light and will follow due process in establishing the facts. The qualification in question is a Bachelor of Commerce Degree in Human Resource Management. Madikizela’s biography on the Western Cape Government website says he has obtained a Bachelor of Commerce Degree in Human Resource Management and a certificate in Information Technology.  Following a report by an online newspaper, Madikizela says he takes full responsibility for not clarifying that he had not completed the BCom degree. The transport MEC, and also DA leader in the province, was appointed to the provincial cabinet by former Western Cape Premier, Helen Zille. Zille, who is now the party’s federal council chair, says she was not aware of any discrepancy in his qualifications at the time of his appointment. She says having a degree was not a requirement for a cabinet position. Zille says an in-depth investigation will take place. “The impact will have to be determined by the Federal Legal Commission in the case of the party itself. In the case of Mr Madikizela’s role in the provincial cabinet, that is in the hands of the premier and his role as provincial leader is in the hands of the Provincial Executive Committee taking advice from the federal legal commission, which will be coming in due course.” The African National Congress in the Western Cape has, meanwhile, called for Madikizela’s immediate suspension pending the outcome of the probe. ANC opposition leader in the Western Cape Provincial Legislature, Cameron Dugmore says, “If this is true that a MEC has fraudulently submitted a CV, this is a very serious matter. It’s a clear breach of code of conduct governing all members of parliament, which includes the MEC in addition to that as leader of the opposition. I have written to the premier, asking him to suspend MEC Madikizela from the cabinet while this investigation continues.” Madikizela, who is one of the mayoral candidates for the City of Cape Town in the upcoming local government elections, says he does not wish to comment any further as he is set to appear before the Federal Legal Commission. 