Game reserves and tourist sites that fall under the Mpumalanga Tourism and Parks Agency (MTPA) remain closed as a strike by workers enters its second week. The workers are demanding that employees who are acting in certain positions be permanently appointed in those positions. However, the MTPA says employees cannot just be placed without following proper procedures. Workers affiliated to National Education, Health and Allied Workers’ Union (Nehawu) are demanding a salary increase, better working conditions and the removal of all executive managers including the Mpumalanga Tourism and Parks Agency’s Chief Executive Officer, Johannes Nobunga. They claim that some workers are working under bad conditions. Nehawu’s Regional Secretary, Sdumo Masilela, says attempts to resolve the issues at the Labour Management Forum were unsuccessful. “We are also demanding proper working conditions of our members. Apart from that, (the management) is also not assisting us to resolve issues particularly the Labour Management Forum. Fifth to that, our members are very much clear to say those who are having prior learning, they must be recognised in promotions. Sixth to that, our members are calling (on) the removal of the executive managers of this institution.” Tourism is one of the sectors hit hard by the COVID-19 pandemic. Now, the strike comes at a time when the authorities are busy trying to revive the sector. MTPA CEO Johannes Nobunga says some of their demands have been met. “We have almost sorted out (sic) … except the issue that I’ve been talking about. People that are acting in positions, which we are saying if you are in the acting position, you will be placed in your normal position. In the acting position, we would advertise those positions, which is one of the sticky parts that we are having because the union feels that people should just be put into those positions.” Workers say some of their issues dated back to 2014. However, Nobunga says they will meet with the union to resolve the other issues. “There is no way, even if our parks are closed for an hour because our tourists come to the province to enjoy the beauty that we have in Mpumalanga. For some reason, we closed our parks due to an illegal strike that has made it difficult for people to come and visit the province. And the other product owners, who are relying on tourism attraction sites that we are having, are not benefiting from the business.” MTPA is concerned about the negative impact the strike is having on the tourism sector and the inconvenience caused to tourists visiting the province.