Gauteng ANC Deputy Chairperson and Education MEC, Panyaza Lesufi, has apologised on behalf of the governing party for how it has treated ANC MP, Jacqui Mofokeng. Lesufi says Mofokeng was overlooked by the organisation she served and loved. He was speaking at Mofokeng and her daughter Thato’s funeral service in Centurion, south of Pretoria. The former Gauteng MPL passed away at her home last Thursday, a day after her daughter succumbed to COVID-19.  The MP’s passing also came on the eve of the end of her quarantine period. Relatives say Mofokeng had recuperated and couldn’t handle the passing of her only child. Lesufi described her as an exceptional worker, who got little recognition. “Sometimes what you love is what hurts you most. Comrade Jacqui loved this movement but I must declare that this movement also hurt comrade Jacqui. We overlooked her; we undermined her. We looked far away when we needed to look straight at her. Her choice to leave the province to go to Cape Town was not an easy choice. To her was it was a healing process and to get out of the poisonous situation that continued to undermine her,” says the ANC Deputy Gauteng Chairperson. Jacqui Mofokeng and daughter laid to rest:  Mofokeng was also described as a strong advocate for the protection of women and children as well as other vulnerable groups. “In Parliament, in a short time she’s been there – we’re going to miss her because she was in three committees and she was felt in those three committees. Newcomer as she was there – of course – nobody in police matter would beat Jacqui because she started long time ago. So really we’ve lost a women, a women we thought was still looking forward to some years helping push Parliament where it can be,” said the Speaker of Parliament, Thandi Modise. Her family described her as their pillar of strength and a lover of finer things. “It’s a double take – her and her daughter at the same time and we accept our fate that it’s a COVID environment and we’re of those who mourn in our country for this carnage, which I hope will stop very soon. But beyond that – she was a brilliant human being as you know. She was a snappy dresser….she had a bright mind and all her life she’s been fighting gender oppression,” family representative, Justice Dikgang Mosekene, said. Mofokeng has been laid to rest at the Lyttleton cemetery. She’s survived by her mother, a brother and sister. Her daughter’s remains will be cremated on Wednesday.