Political parties have generally reacted positively to President Cyril Ramaphosa’s announcement that the Local Government Elections will be held on October the 27th. However, the date has not yet been proclaimed. This will be the sixth time under South Africa’s democratic dispensation that voters will elect leadership and public representatives at metropolitan, district and local level. Leader of the African Christian Democratic Party (ACDP) Reverend Kenneth Meshoe says they are relieved that the date has finally been announced. “We will ensure that we ready ourselves so that those corrupt leaders are replaced by people who will have an interest in helping communities, those who care and understand that the money that is allocated is meant to serve communities and not to be wasted as we have seen happening over the past five years in particular. So, we welcome the announcement as the ACDP.” The Democratic Alliance (DA) has also welcomed Ramaphosa’s announcement. DA leader John Steenhuisen says free, fair and regular elections are the foundation of the country’s constitutional democracy. In a statement, he says he’s delighted that South Africans will get an opportunity to exercise their right to vote later this year. The DA welcomes yesterday’s announcement that South Africa’s Local Government Elections will indeed proceed on 27 October 2021. We ready to bring real change to all South Africans and deliver governments that our country so deserves. – @jsteenhuisen https://t.co/GCMrP8wG3K — Democratic Alliance (@Our_DA) April 22, 2021  Political parties (IFP, ANC, DA, UDM) react in the interviews below:  Political parties (Al Jama-ah, The Good Party, ACDP, COPE) react in the interviews below:  The Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) had proposed that the elections be postponed to 2024 due to the coronavirus pandemic and to coincide with the national general elections. It previously said holding elections this year would rob political parties of an opportunity to campaign freely and fairly because of the COVID-19 restrictions. Political parties to soon meet IEC to discuss upcoming Local Government Elections: 