ANC member of parliament Lawrence Mcdonald has confirmed that he has opened a case of fraud and corruption at the Buitekant Police station in Cape Town against the ANC Chief Whip in Parliament, Pemmy Majodina. The charges are related to the allegations that her son uMkhonto weSizwe got a tender contract to distribute protective personal equipment (PPE) to ANC constituency offices. Macdonald says he opened the case on behalf ANC MPs who are against what appears to be a conflict of interest by Majodina. Another ANC MP, Mervyn Dirks, has formally laid a complaint to the office of the Public Protector against the ANC Chief Whip over Mkhonto’s PPE deal. Some ANC MPs call for tough action against Pemmy Majodina over PPE saga:  In a statement, Dirks says the decision was taken to set a greater moral and ethical standard. Dirks says Members of Parliament are required to have the highest integrity. “This is an opportunity for the ANC leadership to prove to the country and its membership that they are serious about dealing with nepotism , malfeasance and any unethical behaviour of its members that found wanting, and not just a tool to be used in fighting factional battles. The ANC needs to act decisively. We have not be sent to parliament to earn filthy salaries and create business opportunities for our families whilst the poor volunteers of the ANC are staving,” says the MP. Majodina has acknowledged that her son had secured the deal, saying it was to distribute thermometers. She has also said she will avail herself before the ANC Integrity Commission should she be asked to do so. The news comes amid divisions within the governing ANC over the party’s step-aside policy. According to the party’s highest decision-making structure, the NEC, only members who have been charged with corruption should stand down from their positions until cases against them are finalised. However, some another ANC members, including the party’s Secretary-General, believe all those implicated in corrupt activities should step down. They say this is accordance to the party’s 54th national conference resolution. Zizi Kodwa says the ANC must take a stand against those sowing divisions within the party: 