Limpopo Premier, Stan Mathabatha, has launched the electronic registration for COVID-19 vaccine for elderly citizens from 60 years and above. Mathabatha and Health MEC Dr Phophi Ramathuba launched the programme, which is part of the second phase of COVID- 19 vaccination rollout, at Tooseng Clinic outside Polokwane. Scores of people have already been registered since registration opened on Friday. The 64-year-old Premier has also registered on the Electronic Vaccination Data System for the COVID-19 vaccine. He forms part of the age group of citizens that government wants to prioritise during the second phase of the vaccination rollout plan. The elderly, including a 92-year-old former nurse, Junia Mphahlele, say they want to be protected against COVID-19. “Well, I feel fine because I am still have everything with me, I am ill but not unable to walk. I am still able to walk, to come here to register, that is why I came here to protect myself,” says Mphahlele. Elderly citizens who are willing to register have been advised to make use of the online platform either by visiting a local clinic or seeking assistance from the young. Mathabatha says he is also waiting to receive his inoculation. “I feel very elated, it is like I have already got my vaccine even though I have not yet got my vaccine.  I feel stronger, happier, and healthier simply just because I registered for the vaccine, I will definitely get the vaccine,” he says. The premier and MEC Mamathuba also visited several homes in the village where they encouraged the elderly to register. The second phase of the vaccine rollout will begin on 17 May. More information on how to register:  ELECTRONIC VACCINATION DATA SYSTEM Requirements to register: AGE ﻿// You must be 60 years or older to register for the vaccine. IDENTITY// You must have your ID and medical aid card (if you have one) ready before you register. CONTACT// Put in correct address, cell phone and medical aid numbers when registering. CENTRE// Once registered you will be allocated to the relevent vaccination center. sabcnews.com | SABC News Channel | SABC Radio news SOURCE: StatsSA, ﻿Finfind, Medium Term Budget 2020 How to register ﻿on the website First, make sure you have internet access. Connect to the internet and go to vaccine.enroll.health.gov.za. The system will send an SMS confirming registration for vaccination. When it is your turn to be vaccinated, you will receive SMS with a date and the place. If you have problems you may contact the COVID-19 Hotline at 0800 029 999. Source: Department of Health You will need a smartphone, a tablet or a computer. (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document)); 