The Democratic Alliance (DA) has taken its election campaign to the KwaZulu-Natal midlands. Party leader John Steenhuisen was accompanied by the newly-elected provincial party leaders, to listen to challenges faced by the communities. The campaign comes ahead of a by-election in the province on Wednesday. Steenhuisen’s first stop was at the Zuzokuhle informal settlement at Tweedie, in Howick, in the KwaZulu-Natal midlands. He met a community that is without basic services. Community members have resorted to illegal electricity connections. Gugu Mungwe says she has lived under difficult conditions for over 20 years. “We don’t have electricity (and) water so we are a forgotten community. We have now pinned our hopes to the DA at least to fight for us.” Steenhuisen is shocked by the conditions of the Zuzokuhle community. “It appalls me that it’s 20 years since that community has been set up there. They still don’t have legal electricity; they still don’t have running water piped to their homes. They already built homes, let’s give them the dignity of having a title deed and let’s give them the dignity of being able to have running water and electricity so they can advance themselves. Some of these people have been waiting for the past 20 years.” Steenhuisen on reports regarding DA members’ qualifications On the current qualifications saga involving the DA Western Cape leader, Bonginkosi Madikizela, Steenhuisen says they view the allegations of false qualifications in a serious light. Madikizela is alleged to have a Bachelor of Commerce Degree in Human Resources Management. Steenhuizen says that Madikizela has since been suspended while investigations are under way. “I’ll deal firstly with Madikizela. It’s very clear that theirs has been a BCom that has been claimed that is not in fact a BCom. Mr Madikizela has been suspended by the premier while the province does an investigation. But it’s also been referred to the Federal Commission of the Democratic Alliance to look at the facts and I can assure anybody watching this program that if, in fact, there was a deception and it was put forward and that action will be taken. We regard it in a very serious light.” But, Steenhuisen defended the qualification issue involving their party Chief Whip in the National Assembly, Natasha Mazzone. “The issue around Mazzone is completely different. It’s driven by fake news and by the Good Party, who unfortunately didn’t get their facts right. It is very clear that miss Mazzone being the victim of a malicious smear campaign by the Good Party. I think it’s unfortunate as well that Good (Party) chose to do so on the same day that her father passed away, thinking that she wouldn’t be able to respond. Thankfully for her, she responded vigorously and set out the facts very clearly.” The Democratic Alliance says it’s targeting the Umngeni municipality in the coming local government elections to boost votes for the party.