The Justice Project South Africa Chairperson, Howard Dembovsky, has passed away. He died in his sleep on Friday after having suffered a stroke a little more than a week ago. The Organisation Undoing Tax Abuse (OUTA) says Dembovsky’s death has left a vacuum in the transport sector. OUTA chairperson, Wayne Duvenage, says they are devastated as Dembovsky was also in the forefront of various issues of injustice in the industry. “He was a stalwart and positive contributor in the fight against e-toll matter and law road traffic enforcement, ensuring the authorities go about producing AARTO and other legislations in the correct manner so that our roads and road safety issues are managed in a proper manner. A really good person who has fought really hard on road safety matters,” adds Duvenage. Dembovsky founded the non-profit JPSA in 2008. The organisation is pushing for the transformation of the country’s traffic law as well as root out malfeasance in law enforcement. Some South Africans have taken to social media to pay tribute to him. My friend Howard Dembovsky, founder of the Justice Project, sadly passed away peacefully in the early hours of this morning. He suffered a massive stroke about tens days ago and was in a coma in a private hospital. Howard was a relentless campaigner for truth and justice. RIP pic.twitter.com/ENFB94avj4 — Tony Beamish (@TonyBeamish) April 2, 2021  The beginnings of a long and close friendship. Howard Dembovsky and I, around nine years ago, protesting Etolls.
RIP my good friend. You, your spirit, and your tenacity will be sorely missed. pic.twitter.com/YFiSAJumxC — Rob Hutchinson #unlockdown (@RobHutchinson8) April 2, 2021  Our condolences to the family, colleagues and Friends of Howard Dembovsky, the founder of Justice Project SA, who sadly passed away in the early hours of this morning. #RIP pic.twitter.com/HZeYZRGUAD — Arrive Alive (@_ArriveAlive) April 2, 2021  A huge loss to South Africa as Howard Dembovsky the founder of The Justice Project @JPSAorg passes on https://t.co/ym5bldqgNk #ChampionSouthAfrica pic.twitter.com/V6B1k7vd35 — ChampionSouthAfrica (@ChampionSAfrica) April 2, 2021  Howard Dembovsky KNEW motoring law in a way that few tasked with enforcing, interpreting or regulating it either did or cared to. His willingness to share that knowledge and relentless effort to effect positive change towards road safety and just enforcement leave a proud legacy. — Jake TrouserSnake (Convictions Pending) (@ZAPresident) April 2, 2021  R.I.P. Howard Dembovsky (Founder of the Justice Project) Massive loss to SAHe always fought for justice & the truth. The corrupt & criminals are rejoicingI just watched a program on my PVR last night in which he was commenting on money laundering syndicates. #FightingCrime — The Leong King (@The_Leong_King) April 2, 2021 