Many South Africans have taken to social media to pay their tribute to well-known broadcaster and medical doctor, Sindi van Zyl, who died this morning after a two-month battle with COVID 19. She was 45. Dr Sindi’s passing is a major blow to SA Twitter. What a wonderful human being who touched so many souls. May she rest in peace ♥ — Trev (@Tokyo_Trev) April 10, 2021  The van Zyl family has issued a statement, asking for privacy as they mourn the former Kaya FM radio presenter. The family says van Zyl was a beacon of love and light and was a great doctor, a true friend and sister. Thank you Dr Sindi for everything you have done for me  You gave me hope and strength when I was sure I had reached the end of the road. And I know you have done the same for so many other people. We gained an angel  Resurrection Is Promised #RIPDrSindi #DrSindi pic.twitter.com/bnMEYchekx — RIP Dr Sindi  | YT: Kalogo Mojalefa  (@Kalogo_Mojalefa) April 10, 2021  The family has thanked those who had helped raise funds for van Zyl’s hospital bills as she was being treated for COVID 19. At the time of her death, van Zyl had resigned as the host of Sidebar with Sindi on Kaya FM to focus on her health. She had joined the station in 2019 to present the show, which explored multiple facets of health, family and relationships. Greg Maloka was still the station’s Managing Director. “Just in terms of her work and what she tried to highlight outside of her profession and being in a country where we are able to stronger as a country from a healthcare perspective. The fact that people came to the party in order to assist is indicative of the situation that we are in,” says the former Kaya FM boss. SADAG is heartbroken to hear of the passing of our beloved Dr Sindi van Zyl this morning. Our deepest condolences and love to her husband, her beautiful children, her family, friends and colleagues. She was an incredible force for good, with a good heart and generous spirit.  pic.twitter.com/XHobD6w62y — SADAG (@TheSADAG) April 10, 2021  Dr Van Zyl was born in Harare, Zimbabwe. She moved to South Africa in 1996 for university. Social media users are describing her as a powerhouse and kindness personified. Dr. Sindi was the embodiment of love and loving your neighbour as you love yourself…everyone, including her favourite brands, showing up for her last weekend in the way we did is one the best last gifts a human like her deserved. life is unfair — Bongekile Z. Radebe (@BongiZ_Radebe) April 10, 2021  Devastated about Dr Sindi. That was NOT the news I needed to hear. I’m so sorry Marinus. I’m so sorry Caramellos. Your mother was an incredible. She showed us what real kindness looked like. RIP Doc  pic.twitter.com/BgvsgNLIYl — Rob (@RobForbesDJ) April 10, 2021  I genuinely thought Dr Sindi would bounce back. I didn’t even contemplate the possibility of her passing on. I think that’s what makes this hard. She fought and I thought she’d pull through. — Tshepo Ranko (@Tshepo_Ranko) April 10, 2021  What a beautiful soul! You were LOVE Dr Sindi. Yhoo, I don’t know how we are meant to recover from this  https://t.co/TdPLHAVoBh — Miss Lelo (@MsLeloB) April 10, 2021  Dr Sindi van Zyl was magnificent.
When my tenant witnessed the deaths of her friend & children in a car accident, Dr Sindi arranged counselling for her & even paid for a session.
COVID has dealt an utterly cruel blow. We must support Manie & their kids the Caramellos #RIPDrSindi pic.twitter.com/OKjskHfxZI — Madeleine Fullard (@mfullard2) April 10, 2021  The EFF sends its heartfelt condolences on the passing of Dr. Sindi Van Zyl. We join all South Africans in prayer for her family to be comforted during this difficult time. May her soul rest in perfect peace. pic.twitter.com/zrVPl20LdW — Economic Freedom Fighters (@EFFSouthAfrica) April 10, 2021  Deeply saddened by the passing of Dr Sindi but inspired by how she chose to use her career as a vehicle to advance #socialjustice. She was a force for good. Rest in Peace #DrSindi  pic.twitter.com/dASdKKKKgD — Thembalethu Seyisi (@Justice_Seyisi) April 10, 2021  Dr. Sindi Van Zyl, What a powerhouse.
You gave us your all without reservation and for that we will forever be grateful. May your beautiful soul rest in peace Mama pic.twitter.com/Mo3ZpMs9Mj — Limpopo hybrid. (@__reefa__) April 10, 2021 