Lindsay Myeni, the widow of Lindani Myeni who was shot by Honolulu police in Hawaii in the United States last week, has filed a wrongful death lawsuit. In a press conference in Honolulu, family attorney Jim Bickerton accused police of attacking Myeni without announcing themselves as law enforcement and that the KwaZulu-Natal-born rugby player was merely defending himself when blinded by a police maglite. “The property where he was as I’ve mentioned is a transient accommodation that advertises on the internet and people come and go it’s basically a four-room hotel, it’s still a hotel. The property next door is a temple and that also holds its doors open to the public and asks people to remove their shoes. And if you are searching and you are not from this town and you don’t know and the driveways are next to each other and you’re trying to find 51 Kawalu Way to meditate or to ask for advice from someone and you walked into 91 Kawalu Way by accident which again is public accommodation anyway, you’re not committing a burglary, you’re not doing anything wrong, why does HPD keep spreading this misinformation,” says Bickerton. Lindsay Myeni in conversation with SABC News:  Bickerton called Myeni a highly talented and experienced rugby player, accustomed to physical encounters. Bickertson argues that race was a factor in how police interacted with Myeni. “I’ve been talking to members of the rugby community and to a person they all say, you’re trained, you know that if bad guys are coming to get you, if you run they might shoot you in the back, you go at them as fast as you can. Now if they say, sir, excuse me but we’re investigating a burglary, can you stand still, can you show us your hands, and don’t make a move we are the police, that’s a very different story. One of the things that we believe very strongly about this case is that if I had been in that mistaken position, if I had been there where someone didn’t want me to be, and police came, that is exactly how they would have addressed me. But you can hear it in the tone of the officer addressing a black man, treating him like he is nothing, ‘get on the ground’ – not even worth being given the information that I am a police officer.” Conversation with Myeni family attorney:  Meanwhile, the Honolulu police have insisted that the fatal shooting has nothing to do with his race. Police say that Myeni who lived nearby allegedly followed a woman into her home and took off his shoes. Police also say that when they arrived at the home, he charged at their officers. Honolulu Police Chief Susan Ballard says Myeni exhibited strange behaviour. “Officers administered first aid to the suspect and the man was transported to the hospital in critical condition. He died of his injuries at the hospital. The three responding officers were also taken to the hospital for multiple injuries,” says Ballard. “The first officer to arrive has multiple facial fractures, a concussion and injuries to his arms and legs. He remains hospitalised. He has 23 years of service. The second officer suffered multiple injuries to his body, arms and legs. The third officer had a concussion and multiple abrasions to the body, arm and legs. Both officers received medical treatment but have since been released,” she adds. Myeni is survived by his wife and two children. His wife Lindsay has dismissed allegations that he was a burglar.