A teenager from Rustenburg in the North West has developed a security alarm system to combat house burglaries. Phakiso Siyabonga Ditlhale (14) says he invented a security alarm system for the community and local businesses after he noticed a spike in burglaries in the area. Ditlhale’s innovation utilises three energy sources – electricity, solar power, and a battery. The alarm system is known as Gaurdova. “So Gaurdova is a security monitoring alarm system. It has three power sources; electricity, solar and the battery. In case there is load shedding, the energy that will be harvested from here is going to be stored in here and this battery is going to power it up. This sensor here I use to detect any unusual motion or emergencies and as you can see here with the red light it represents the flashlight here on the phone to show that it’s armed. And here you can hear the buzzer and the vibrator. With this sound here of the buzzer and the vibrator, the phone is automatically going to make this sound on the business owner’s phone or the household owners,” he explains. Ditlhale hopes to use the system to improve security around his community. “With my idea I want it to be advanced and as it would be advanced. I want it to be patented in my name. And as I want it to be advanced and patented, to create also jobs for my community and to make people feel free in my community, in the nation, or in the world. To make them feel free and secure at all costs.” The 14-year-old took only three weeks to develop the system. Rustenburg teen develops a security alarm system:  Homeowners warned Last year, law enforcement experts warned homeowners to be wary of markings on walls and pavements around their homes as well as unexpected power cuts ahead of scheduled load shedding. They say these are just some of the new tactics criminals have developed to rob houses. Vice President of Crime Stoppers International, Yusuf Abramjee, says criminal syndicates and common thieves are now using a wide range of modus operandis to take advantage of innocent and unsuspecting citizens. In the video below, we see how new technology has been developed to curb house break-ins. 