As more people feel the economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic they are looking elsewhere to shop and find a bargain. Many are also looking to make a little money on the side by renting stalls to sell their wares. The Milnerton Flea Market sells mostly second-hand goods and even amid strict COVID-19 protocols, are as busy as ever. Capetonians were out and about on Sunday at the popular Milnerton Flea Market. The open air market is a haven for collectors of strange and interesting conversation pieces as well as old plates, glass ware and other paraphernalia. Due to COVID-19 regulations, the flea market can only accommodate a certain number of stalls. “It’s a very sad day today because we had to, in actual fact, had to turn away 35 casual traders. A lot of people come to this market to put bread on the table, to earn a living and we couldn’t accommodate everybody because of COVID-19 regulations. There’s lots of space in between our stalls, lots of social distancing and everybody wears a mask on our market,” says Milnerton Flea Market vice-Treasurer, Bruce Tate. Some traders are noticing a trend where shoppers buy only what they need. “They like the second hand goods at a good price, everything must be priced very well. They like to buy things that they really need and it has decreased quite dramatically,” says a car parts trader at the Millerton flea market. Many seeking alternatives Herbalist Neville van Schalkwyk has not been negatively impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic as more people are starting to look at alternatives to Western medicine. “One thing that came up was the Wilde Als, which is indigenous to South Africa. It grows all over in South Africa and it’s a very good herb for the chest, asthma, bronchitis, phlegm, tight chest. It’s a very healthy herb to drink,” says Herbalist, Neville van Schalkwyk. From herbs to car parts, one can find nearly anything at this flea market. As the saying goes “one person’s rubbish is another’s treasure.” So, think twice before getting rid of that old stuff in the storeroom and garage, there might just be someone out there, looking for exactly what you are about to throw away.