The South African Weather Service says heavy rains are expected over the northern parts of KwaZulu-Natal, Limpopo, and Mpumalanga tomorrow. Last weekend, heavy rains claimed two lives in KwaZulu-Natal and damaged hundreds of homes in the oPhongola and Jozini areas after tropical storm Eloise made landfall in Mozambique. The storm was later downgraded to a tropical depression. In the video below, Tropical storm Eloise affects some parts of KwaZulu-Natal:  Forecaster Stacey Colborne says there’s a 30% chance of rain in different parts of the province. “Tomorrow you can expect 30% chances of showers and thundershowers over parts of KZN otherwise 60% chances of showers and thundershowers we do have a warning out for heavy rains over the North Eastern KZN for tomorrow.” Several houses damaged after heavy rain Heavy rains experienced last night have left several houses damaged in Tekwane Southeast of Mbombela in Mpumalanga. Many households have all their furniture wet and the owners are stranded. Some of the residents say the rain hit them for the second time in a space of a week. More rain is still focused in this part of the province, until next week. One of the affected residents, Phindile Nkosi, says everything in her house is wet. “The water was too much inside my house I didn’t know that the water will come inside because I’ve already built. Like this as the rain was coming  inside it was very very heavy that’s why we went down there and check and make holes because that was the only thing we have done  besides those holes we could have been inside the water.” CAUTIONLimpopo and Mpumalanga provinces are in for more rainfall from Monday 01/02/2021. Take note and be Weathersmart. Take care pic.twitter.com/4aGsf7RXRW — SA Weather Service (@SAWeatherServic) January 30, 2021  On high alert Meanwhile, Disaster management teams are on high alert at the Kruger National Park following heavy rains experienced last night. A spokesperson for the South African national parks, Ike Paahla, says most gravel roads in the park have been flooded. Paahla says several gates have been closed and the situation is being monitored. “The Kruger National Park has experienced heavy rains overnight, Pafuri is currently cut off and tourists, are advised to avoid going in that direction. Crocodile bridge is being flooded and visitors should use the Malalene gate as an alternative. Phabeni is also flooded and visitors should use Numbi or Paul Kruger gate, most gravel roads, and low water bridges, are being closed off and there should be no attempts to go into roads.” – additional reporting Vusi Twala There is a high possibility of Crocodile river flooding again and the bridge to be closed. Updates will be given as received. pic.twitter.com/tyxQvGSmlr — Kruger National Park (@SANParksKNP) January 31, 2021  Warning
Phabeni bridge currently under water. Pretorius kop got 175 mm rain last night. The Phabeni gate has been closed until further notice. pic.twitter.com/r2C5ywzeOJ — Kruger National Park (@SANParksKNP) January 31, 2021 