Police in KwaZulu-Natal say they will be monitoring the funeral of alleged Shallcross drug lord, Yaganathan Pillay, commonly known as Teddy Mafia scheduled to take place on Thursday. There are concerns that the funeral could be a super-spreader of COVID-19 as large crowds are expected. Teddy Mafia was shot at his home in Taurus Street, Shallcross and shortly died in hospital. Police spokesperson, Brigadier Jay Naicker, says any person found defying lockdown 3 regulations during the funeral will face the full might of the law. “Well I think the regulations are very clear and nobody needs to interpret it people have to comply with all of the regulations. So, we will be monitoring the funeral as we do with all other events in the province. Regulations are there, they’ve been passed. Its very clear in terms of what will happen to people who contravene the regulations. Police will apply the law in all instances. The law is very clear. Detectives from the Provincial Organised Crime Unit are investigating the matter. We will inform the public once there is a breakthrough.” Shallcross alleged gangster fatally shot, alleged killers beheaded and burnt Teddy Mafia and his two alleged killers were killed in what is believed to be an ongoing drug turf war between gangs in Taurus Street, Shallcross, south of Durban. It is alleged that two of the victims were beheaded and their bodies burnt. Shallcross alleged gangster shot:  The shooting incident occurred at the alleged gangster’s property. According to the police – prior to the incident, Teddy Mafia, told his daughter that he was expecting visitors. She says she heard gun shots after she went to the back of their home, soon after the arrival of the suspects. She then established that her father had been shot. The community apprehended both suspects. Durban Metro Police spokesperson, Parboo Sewpersad, says the suspects were shot dead before they were beheaded and burnt. When police officers arrived at the scene, the community opened fire at them. Police called in the Public Order Policing Unit, who dispersed the crowd with no injuries. SABC News reporter Mlondi Radebe elaborates on the story:  Police did not seize any firearms at the scene nor arrest anyone.