The alcohol industry says it will apply for a deferment of the payment of excise tax until the ban on alcohol is lifted. Excise tax is paid to the South African Revenue Service (SARS) for each of the products made. This is to compensate for the potential harm that the product might cause in society. On Monday, President Cyril Ramaphosa announced that the ban on the sale of alcohol under the adjusted Alert Level three Lockdown would remain in place. Spokesperson for the South African Liquor Brand owners Association Sibani Mngadi says companies are paying excise tax despite the current ban on alcohol sales. Mngadi says, “The industry pays an average of R2.5 billion per month to SARS in excise tax contribution. Excise tax on alcohol is imposed at point of production which means that companies have a liability to pay for excise tax from products that cannot be sold as a result of the current prohibition. Opening alcohol sales for home consumption will bring some relief to the economic strain faced by the industry and these sales have no impact on increasing COVID-19 infections or impact on the health system.” Financial impact The Liquor Traders Association (LTASA) outlined the negative financial impact of the ban on the sale of alcohol in a letter written to the government, saying employees in the liquor industry could face poverty. In the audio below, LTASA Convenor Lucky Ntimane says they wrote to the government to consider helping save lives as well as livelihoods: INFOGRAPHIC: Level 3 restrictions: sabcnews.com | SABC News channel | SABC Radio news SA COVID-19 AMENDED LEVEL 3 LOCKDOWN REGULATIONS MASKS The wearing of a face mask is mandatory for every  person when in a public place. Public places include the workplace, public transport and retail stores.   Any person who does not wear a mask in public will be committing an offence. On conviction, they will be liable to a fine or imprisonment for a period not exceeding six months or to both a fine and imprisonment.  CURFEW Every person is confined to his or her place of residence from 9PM until 5AM daily, unless a person: Has been granted permission through directions by the relevant Cabinet member or a permit to perform a service. Is attending to a security or medical emergency GATHERINGS 1.5 metres Every business premises must determine the maximum number of staff and customers permitted at any one time while maintaining a distance of 1.5 metres between people.H   Health protocols must be observed at gatherings, including maintaining a distance of at least 1.5 metres between people.  Attendance of a funeral is limited to a maximum of 50 persons.  If the venue is too small to hold 50 persons observing a distance of at least one and a half metres from each other. then not more than 50 percent of the capacity of the venue may be used.   Night vigils and after-funeral gatherings "after- tears" are not allowed.  The duration of a funeral is restricted to a maximum of two hours.  HRS FUNERALS Closing time for non-essential establishments, whether indoors or outdoors, is 20H00. This includes restaurants and bars. 20h00 Indoor and outdoor social gatherings, religious gatherings, political events, traditional council meetings and gatherings at sports grounds are prohibited.  Where there are exceptions, such as restauranrs, museums and gyms, no more than 50 people are permitted indoors and no more than 100 people outdoors- and may not exceed more than 50% of a venue's capacity.  All beaches, dams, lakes, rivers, public parks and public swimming pools in hotspot areas will be closed to the public. AMENDED LEVEL 3 AMENDED LEVEL 3 AMENDED LEVEL 3 AS ANNOUNCED ON 11 JANUARY 2021 Botanical gardens, national parks and other parks where access control measures and entry limitations may remain open to the public. sabcnews.com | SABC News channel | SABC Radio news Source: South African government sabcnews.com | SABC News channel | SABC Radio news Source: South African government 20 land ports of entry will be closed until 15 February 2021 for general entry and departure.  BORDERS AMENDED LEVEL 3 The sale, dispensing, and distribution of liquor for off-site consumption and for on-site consumption is prohibited.    Alcohol sales from retail outlets are not permitted.   ALCOHOL Beitbridge Lebombo Maseru Bridge Oshoek Ficksburg Kopfontein  CLOSED BORDERS - transportation of fuel, cargo and goods,  - emergency medical attention for a life-threatening condition,  - the return of South African nationals, permanent residents or persons with other valid visas,  - diplomats,  - the departure of foreign nationals,  - daily commuters from neighbouring countries who attend school in South Africa. People will be  be allowed to enter or depart the country for:  Six busiest border posts that are closed (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document));