Localised flooding caused by tropical storm Eloise is wreaking havoc in Limpopo, washing away bridges and leaving several houses and vehicles submerged. The Vhembe District is the most affected so far. Some roads are impassable. The bridges at Tshitavhadulu, Tshakhuma outside Thohoyandou and between Tshedza and Vuvha villages have been damaged.  Similar situation have also been reported in the Mutale area. Residents at Tshitavhadulu, Ernest Netshikudeni and Avhatakali Mavhungu, say it will be difficult to move around. “This is not really a bridge they just made this place for the people to go past to the shops. I am very very angry because there is nothing else we can do,” says Netshikudeni. Mavhungu adds: “I can say to the government they must go and sit and discuss places how they can help us. We use this bridge to pass to go to Louis Trichardt and Thohoyandou and to go and buy some other foods.” A resident from Tswinga village outside Thohoyandou, Stanley Mukwevho, could not access Tshedza village to visit his relatives. Mukwevho says he has received reports that his relative were not feeling sickly and he had wanted to visit. He had to return back as a bridge between Tshedza-Vuvha has been damaged. “I am very disappointed because I had wanted to go and see my relatives – with the bridge damaged – I will have to go back,” he says.  The disaster management authorities say they will make assessments once the rai has subsided. And in Mpumalanga, motorists have been urged to be cautious when driving on wet roads. Heavy rain accompanied by strong wind have uprooted trees, blockading the R537 road between White River and Sabie.  Community Safety, Security and Liaison spokesperson, Moeti Mmusi, warned motorists to be extra vigilant on the roads especially when crossing bridges. “They need to keep their headlights on keeps safe following distance and reduce speed, they also need to be on the lookout for mist condition that can be created by the wet weather R537 road there are trees that have fallen on the roads we are urging motorists to be cautious of that,” Mmusi says. Storm warning The City of Tshwane has issued a warning of a possible storm following a level 10 warning for disruptive rain in various parts of Limpopo and Mpumalanga provinces. The city’s, Emergency Services calls on residents in the northern and north eastern parts of the city to be on high alert. This as parts of Gauteng and the city may also experience some disruptive rain from Monday. The level 10 warning indicates that the impact of the cyclone on the infrastructure, lives and livelihoods of people and animals and the environment is likely to be very devastating. The disruptive rain is as a result of the Tropical Cyclone Eloise, which has left some people dead in Mozambique and caused damage to infrastructure. Residents are warned of possible flooding of susceptible roads and low-lying bridges. Cyclone Eloise downgraded to a tropical depression:  No damage to Eskom infrastructure Power utility Eskom meanwhile says the tropical storm over Mozambique did not damage its infrastructure. Spokesperson Sikonathi Mantshantsha says the storm passed the transmission lines from Cahora Bassa without any damage to infrastructure. He says although they were reinforced a few years ago after similar storms, the lines are the riskiest part. He says Eskom will communicate timeously should there be any significant changes. – Additional reports from SABC News’ Mpumalanga and Pretoria offices