The Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) has called for the immediate criminal prosecution of everyone implicated in wrongdoing during the testimony of Chairperson of the High Level Review Panel into the State Security Agency  (SSA) Sydney Mufamadi. Testifying at the State Capture Commission, Mufamadi spoke of initiatives in which agency money was used for Former President Jacob Zuma’s personal benefit. These it is alleged included providing VIP protection to Zuma’s advance travelling teams, influencing members of the judiciary involved in Zuma’s court cases, influencing the media, a toxicology unit to taste his food and drink and one to maintain his wife MaNtuli to the amount of R 5. 2 million. The EFF has called for all those involved to be named and face legal proceedings. The party also says it will open a case against then State Security Minister David Mahlobo who they say presided over such initiatives at the time. EFF Statement On Sydney Mufamadi’s Testimony At The State Capture Commission Of Enquiry pic.twitter.com/AGLUnxlDLU — Economic Freedom Fighters (@EFFSouthAfrica) January 25, 2021  On Monday, Mufamadi testified that the panel found that there had been politicisation and factionalisation of the intelligence community over the past 10 years in contravention of the constitution. The panel was appointed by President Cyril Ramaphosa in 2018 to investigate whether the SSA was conducting itself as a professional national service. Mufamadi says the malfeasance where the intelligence community was appropriated for factional battles in the African National Congress(ANC) began with a 2009 proclamation by Zuma merging the country’s intelligence agencies into the SSA. “It is difficult for anybody to say if the act of introducing the proclamation is an enabler for wrongdoing and in this instance, wrongdoing ensued after the introduction of the proclamation. It will be difficult for anyone to argue that there is no causal relationship between the two.” Sydney Mufamadi’s testimony at the State Capture Commission: Additional reporting by Busi Chimombe.