The late Minister in the Presidency Jackson Mthembu’s memorial service will be held at the Government Communication and Information System Auditorium in Hatfield, Pretoria on Monday. The memorial service was originally planned for Saturday but has been postponed following consultation between the Presidency and the late minister’s family. Politicians have been visiting Mthembu’s home in Emalahleni, Mpumalanga to pay their respects. Most of Mthembu’s colleagues battled to hold back tears as they conveyed messages of condolences to his family. Mthembu died on Thursday from COVID-19 related complications after being admitted to hospital last week. He will be buried in Emalahleni on Sunday during an Official Funeral Category One. Mpumalanga acting African National Congress secretary Lindiwe Ntshalintshali has fond memories of Mthembu. Journalist Natasha Phiri describes the mood at the Mthembu family home:  Minister Mthembu has been described as an exemplary leader, an activist and a life-long champion of freedom and democracy. “He was a much-loved and greatly respected colleague and comrade, whose passing leaves our nation at a loss. I extend my deepest sympathies to the Minister’s family, to his colleagues, comrades and many friends,” says the Presidency in a statement. Mthembu’s death comes as the country continues to battle the second wave of the coronavirus.  Mthembu was instrumental in the creation of the Metal and Allied Workers Union (MAWU), today known as the National Union of Metal Workers (NUMSA). According to the government website, after the unbanning of political parties in 1990, he led the Witbank branch of the ANC. Between 1990 – 1994 he worked full-time as ANC spokesman in Mpumalanga and participated as ANC staff component at the CODESA negotiations. He served in several strategic roles including as a member of the ANC Mpumalanga Provincial Executive Committee. Member of ANC National Executive Committee (NEC) since 2007, he was the national spokesperson of the ANC under President Nelson Mandela from 1995 – 1997, appointed to the same role again from 2009 – 2014. Minister Mthembu served as the Chief Whip of the ANC in the National Assembly from 2016 up to the end of the 5th term of Parliament in 2019. After the 2019 national and general elections he was appointed as the Minister in the Presidency. Minister Mthembu was married to Thembi Mthembu, together with their children they made Mbombela (Nelspruit) their home. Dr. Pandor saddened by the passing of Minister Mthembu:  Gallery of the Minister:   