The Democratic Alliance (DA) in the Western Cape has called for a differentiated approach which allows schools which are ready, to reopen. The reopening of schools has been delayed until next month as the country battles a second wave of the coronavirus. DA Western Cape Spokesperson for Education and Member of Provincial Parliament Lorraine Botha says delaying the start of the academic year places more strain on a learner’s well being. Botha says statistics released by the Western Cape Education Department shows an alarming increase in learner suicides in the province last year. She says some learners have dealt with enough loss as a result of the virus. “Some learners have sadly lost a parent, caregivers and loved ones. This will have long-lasting impact on their wellbeing and performance. A differentiated approach would allow for schools to reopen based on their readiness and by taking into consideration the need for contact time with its learners. It is impossible for all learners to fully benefit from distance learning as it stands.” Department of Basic Education answers questions on delayed reopening of schools:  Meanwhile, the Western Cape government says the province is ready for the reopening of schools. Premier Alan Winde says they will make input in a national meeting this week regarding the reopening of schools. “We will make our inputs around schools in our presentation, that our Education Department is prepared and ready for schools to open,” says Winde. In November 2020, the Department of Education in the Western Cape called on young people between the ages of 18 and 35 to take advantage of its programme to recruit more than 20 000 education assistants and general school assistants. The programme started running in December and will continue until the end of March. Applicants should possess a tertiary qualification or a matric certificate and they must be unemployed. The video below is on a muted the opening for some independent schools amid COVID-19: 