The Gauteng Health Department says it intends to suspend the CEO of Tembisa Hospital, Doctor Lekopane Mogaladi, over the death of a patient last year. The Health Ombud’s report into the death of Shonisani Lethole recommended disciplinary action against 19 staff members after finding that Lethole had received sub-standard care. Before his death, Lethole wrote a tweet to Health Minister Zweli Mkhize complaining that he was being starved at the facility. Gauteng Health Department spokesperson, Kwara Kekana says the CEO was served with notice to place him on precautionary suspension. “As part of the standard labour practices, the CEO has been afforded an opportunity to make representations, within five working days of receipt of the notice, regarding the intention to place him on precautionary suspension. The Department wishes to reiterate its commitment to implementing the recommendations of the report by the Health Ombuds into the circumstances surrounding the care and death of Mr Shonisani Lethole at Tembisa Hospital within legal prescripts.” Medical negligence Health Ombudsman Professor Malegapuru Makgoba released shocking findings of an investigation into the death of businessman Lethole. The man was admitted to Tembisa hospital, east of Johannesburg, with breathing difficulties in July last year. He died before receiving his results, which showed that he had tested positive for COVID-19. The report found evidence of medical negligence on the part of the hospital because Lethole was not offered food for 100 hours during his admission. The proceedings of the findings can be viewed in the video below:  Families demand answers from Gauteng Health In July last year, two Johannesburg families demanded answers from Gauteng Health. One family claimed their mother died after contracting COVID-19 at the Chris Hani Baragwanath Hospital after being admitted for an unrelated health problem early in June. The other family alleges negligence at the Tembisa Hospital, as outlined in the report below:  Health Ombud findings into patient’s death at Tembisa Tertiary Hospital 