The Commission of Inquiry into State Capture Chairperson, Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo, has adjourned the commission’s proceedings in Johannesburg to go into self-isolation following contact with a COVID-positive individual in his team. The Commission will continue with former Eskom CEO Brian Molefe’s testimony at a later date to be announced by the commission. Deputy Chief Justice Zondo to self-isolate after coming in contact with COVID-19 positive colleague:  Zondo also indicated that Former President Jacob Zuma will also not be appearing next week as planned. Justice Zondo says Zuma has requested time to allow for the finalisation of his review application and constitutional court matter. “The commission has been informed by the attorney representing the former president Mr. Zuma that he will not be appearing before the commission next week. He says that should not in any way be seen as disrespect on his part for any legal process. It seems he says it’s because the review application that it has lodged should be finalised first.” Zuma before the Commission In November 2020, Zuma abruptly walk-out of the commission’s proceedings when his bid to have Justice Zondo recuse himself was denied. The former President has been implicated on a number of occasions at the commission. Zuma claimed that he and Justice Zondo were friends and that the commission would be biased against him. Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo rejects Zuma’s claims of bias:  In December, the highest court in the land, the Constitutional Court, heard an urgent application by the secretary of the commission to have Zuma appear before the Zondo Commission in January and February. The application also sought an order declaring Zuma’s walkout unlawful and in breach of the commission’s Act. However, in early December through his lawyers, Zuma said he will not participate in the commission’s Constitutional Court bid. Sticking to his guns, the former President did not show up at the Constitutional Court either to respond or oppose arguments by the commission’s legal team. The commission’s legal representative advocate Tembeka Ngcukaitobi described Zuma’s refusal to appear before the commission as belligerent and defiant. Concourt hears an application to compel Jacob Zuma to appear at the Zondo Commission: 