WARNING: This story contains graphic information that can upset sensitive readers and children. A woman has been arrested at Matiwaneskop in Ladysmith for allegedly trafficking her teenage daughter. It is alleged that the woman sent her 15-year-old daughter to visit a family friend in Johannesburg. She was introduced to family friends, one of whom raped her. KwaZulu-Natal Police Spokesperson, Thembeka Mbhele says, “This man allegedly raped her the whole night and in the morning then he took her back to her relative’s place. “At the house, she witnessed this man giving her relative some money, which she then went into the house to count it. The victim was luckily rescued by two girls who actually know her from Matiwaneskop area. They took her back home. When she arrived home she was scared to inform anyone (about) what occurred to her. She later found the courage to report the incident at Elandslagte SAPS Police Station and charges of human trafficking and rape were opened for investigation.” Police say the investigation led to the arrest of the mother of the victim who is 53-years-old. Man sentenced to life imprisonment Meanwhile, the Kuruman Magistrate’s Court in the Northern Cape has sentenced a 32-year-old man to life imprisonment and a further 26 years for the rape and robbery of two pregnant women. Tshepiso Oliphant was found guilty of raping the women twice in different incidents during 2012 and 2013 and robbing them of cash and cellphones. According to the police, Oliphant was arrested in September 2013 and was granted bail but did not show up in court. He was re-arrested in September last year. Northern Cape police Spokesperson, Mashay Gamieldien, says, “The first rape occurred when the 18-year-old victim was lured by the accused to promise land in Mothibistad where he took her to an open field and raped her twice. He also robbed her of her cellphone and money. The second incident occurred when the 29-year-old victim met the accused at the hiking spot next to the Kuruman court. Both the victim and accused climbed into the same vehicle and when the lift stopped he also got out with the victim. He then grabbed her and dragged her into an abandoned house where he raped her twice and also stole her cellphone and cash.”