Tshwane Emergency Services say it is still assessing the impact of heavy downpours that engulfed the city since Sunday. The downpours followed the Weather Service’s warning of disruptive rains. On Thursday, the heavy rains led to closure of some of the streets in the Capital City. Gauteng Weather Services has issued a warning that the entire province is going to experience heavy downpours going into the weekend. The City of Tshwane is urging residents to be vigilant and alert as the rain and persistent showers are anticipated in the coming weekend, which may result in further flooding. The City says the damage reported from various areas include flooded yards and houses. There are no reports of infrastructure damage as yet, except the collapse of a roof at Masakhane Clinic in Bronkhorstspruit. Tshwane Emergency Services spokesperson, Charles Mabaso, outlined affected areas. “The areas that have reported issues of the impact of the flood with water coming inside the yard or houses is Block KK and Block PP3 in Soshanguve, Refentse, formerly known as Stinkwater, Ga Rankuwa phase 5, Plastic View informal settlement in Garsfontein, Majaneng, it’s Mamelodi Extension 11.” One of the affected residents, Dinah of Soshanguve Block KK says the rain has caused damage to her perimeter wall. “The rain has caused massive damage for us. It entered through the wall on the other side. The water was out of control. When we woke up this morning we could not leave the house.” Meanwhile, community leader Sabelo Ntuli called on municipal officials to relocate affected residents to higher areas. “We request that the municipality, to avoid danger, take these people, relocate them to a better place where it’s safe.” The City of Tshwane says persistent rains have compelled it to temporarily shutdown the Bronkhorstspruit Water Treatment plant in the east of Pretoria. The City said, in a statement, the shutdown is to avoid contamination of drinking water in the area because the plant is unable to treat high volumes of water. Tshwane spokesperson, Lindela Mashigo, says the City will wait for the rain to subside before the plant resumes operation. “The persisting downpours that are being experienced in various parts of the city have caused an increase in raw water turbidity in the Bronkhorstspruit river. Since the Bronkhorstspruit Water Treatment plant is unable to treat water with extremely high turbidity, the city has been compelled to temporarily shutdown the plant in order to avoid distributing water that is not of acceptable standards for drinking.” More rains are expected during the weekend. People have been warned to remain cautious. SA Weather | Friday 29 January 2021: 