Tributes are pouring in for the late KwaZulu-Natal MEC for Transport, Community Safety and Liaison, Bheki Ntuli. The 63-year-old Ntuli succumbed to COVID 19-related complications in a Durban hospital. [UPDATE] KZN MEC of Transport Bheki Ntuli has succumbed to #COVID19. He was a PEC member of the @ANCKZN. The party has confirmed his untimely death through Spokesperon @NhlaksNtombela. #sabcnews pic.twitter.com/X7OdzausLi — #TheLordOfTheMedia (@samkelemaseko) January 16, 2021  Ntuli was involved in the formation of African National Congress (ANC) structures in the then Northern Natal region. He served for more than 15 years as the Chairperson of the ANC in the Musa Dladla Region. He also has served for more than 20 years as a member and leader of the ANC sub-committee on Peace and Stability. Inkatha Freedom Party (IFP) President Velenkosini Hlabisa and provincial Democratic Alliance (DA) leader Zwakele Mncwango have described Ntuli as a leader who was able to work with all political parties. “Bheki Ntuli was the MEC was a humble person. A person who was approachable from all angles. And he was tolerant of all political parties in the legislature, right before the time when he was the Chairperson of the portfolio and up to the time when he was appointed as the MEC.” “He always wanted to go with other leaders. He never classified us as just opposition but he always classified us as members of legislature and people who are working together.” Meanwhile, KwaZulu-Natal Santaco chairperson Boy Zondi has described Ntuli’s passing as a great loss in the transport sector. Zondi says they closely worked with Ntuli in trying to resolve conflicts in the taxi industry. “We’ve been working very closely with the MEC in trying to address the issues of the taxi industry. It is a great loss to us as the Taxi Industry.  We’ve had a wonderful MEC out of Mphemba. (A) MEC who was always willing to listen to the issues of the taxi industry, not only willing to listen but was addressing the issues of the taxi industry. We could see that we were going somewhere working with the MEC.”