The South African Health Products Regulatory Authority (SAHPRA) says it is awaiting data that may prompt them to review its stance on Ivermectin in the treatment of COVID-19. In South Africa, the drug is not currently registered for human use, but SAHPRA occasionally grants Section 21 permits for the use of topical Ivermectin for the treatment of individual patients with conditions such as scabies or head lice. This comes as pressure mounts on government and SAHPRA to allow for the legal use of the human formulation of Ivermectin. SAHPRA’s Dr Shyamli Munbodh, says, “SAHPRA is quite firm that when it comes to the use of Ivermectin in the treatment of COVID-19, that a clinical trial must be conducted. It wasn’t actually a ban. It was a cautionary note that there has been reports of widespread use of the veterinary formulation. These are seen as illicit formulations. This maybe listed by the WHO as as essential medicine but it is for other indications and prophylaxis of COVID-19 which haven’t been evaluated by the WHO as yet.” “We are awaiting emerging, clinical data from studies that have been ongoing using Ivermectin in the treatment of COVID-19. SAHPRA will review that and then also review its stance on this.” INFOGRAPHIC: Facts on Ivermectin sabcnews.com | SABC News channel | SABC Radio news FACTS ABOUT IVERMECTIN Healthcare workers are calling on government and the South African Health Products Regulatory Authority to allow for the legal use of the human formulation of Ivermectin to treat COVID-19 * Ivermectin is a widely used drug for the treatment and control of parasites in animals and is used to treat several tropical diseases in humans not commonly seen in SA.  * Ivermectin is a synthetic derivative of the antiparasitic class of compounds known as avermectins. WHAT IS IVERMECTIN? * In SA ivermectin is registered for use under Act 36 of 1947 (Department of Agriculture) for use in animals.  *Only veterinarians and other trained personnel are allowed to prescribe it as an antiparasitic agent for a variety of animals.  *The drug is not currently registered for human use, but SAHPRA occasionally grants Section 21 permits for the use of topical ivermectin as an unregistered product for the treatment of individual patients with conditions such as scabies or head lice. Attendance of a funeral is limited to a maximum of 50 persons.  If the venue is too small to hold 50 persons observing a distance of at least one and a half metres from each other. then not more than 50 percent of the capacity of the venue may be used.   Night vigils and after-funeral gatherings "after- tears" are not allowed.  The duration of a funeral is restricted to a maximum of two hours.  HRS FUNERALS * Several investigators have reported that when tested in the laboratory, ivermectin inhibits replication of coronavirus.  * In relation to ivermectin use for COVID-19, Ivermectin is not indicated nor approved for use in humans.  *There is no confirmatory data on ivermectin available as yet for its use in the management of COVID-19 infections.  *In terms of safety and efficacy there is no evidence to support the use of ivermectin and we do not have any clinical trial evidence to justify its use.      AMENDED LEVEL 3 AMENDED LEVEL 3 Source: SAHPRA REGULATIONS SAHPRA'S VIEWS ﻿ON IVERMECTIN & COVID-19 (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document));