The Kingdom of Eswatini has strengthened its lockdown regulations following an increase of COVID-19 cases since last month. So far, more than 4 000 positive COVID-19 cases have been recorded and about 140 people have died due to the virus. The Eswatini government has announced that international travelling will only be allowed for medical attention, schooling, work and business. Social gatherings have been banned and burials beyond the three-day period from the date of death will require a permit. Eswatini Acting Prime Minister, Themba Masuku, says only people with special permits will be allowed to travel to other countries. Masuku says gatherings are prohibited except funerals, but only 50 people will be allowed to attend funerals which are also limited to two hours. “Travelling from Eswatini to other countries will be allowed for medical attention, schooling, work and business purposes. Our border officials will carefully scrutinise all documentation to ascertain that this directive is strictly adhered to. Cross border freight should operate observing all SADC protocols and standards. Only essential approved cross border travel with special permits will be allowed.” Meanwhile, liquor trade is still allowed at Eswatini but only from 11 am to 4 pm between Monday and Thursday. Some residents believe that the action was long overdue. “Now we know about corona and corona is there and it is deathly, it is killing people. We are happy about the lockdown and it must continue even the 2-weeks that we are given we think there must be an extension of the lockdown 2. The inflow and the in and out of the people has to be under control  reason being, you find out that some people are positive and those people are allowed to free flaw.” President of the Swaziland National Association of Teachers in Eswatini, Mbongwa Dlamini, has commended the Eswatini government for postponing the reopening of schools. “We are happy about the position that has been taken by the Minister of Education to postpone the opening of schools because of the situation. So us as a trade union of teachers, we are saying that the government should make sure that before schools are open, the  schools should be safe for teaching and learning. So if the schools are not safe for teaching and learning so it is best for the government to wait.” Dlamini also confirmed both the Association’s Secretary and the Treasurer recently tested positive for COVID-19. Government also confirmed that the restrictions will be reviewed after 14-days or earlier if the COVID-19 situation deteriorates. Over 2.9 million confirmed #COVID19 cases on the African continent – with more than 1.6 million recoveries & 69,000 deaths cumulatively. View country figures & more with the WHO African Region COVID-19 Dashboard: https://t.co/FKav40Cbdd pic.twitter.com/Uc7ivZXWv6 — WHO African Region (@WHOAFRO) January 7, 2021  Kingdom of Eswatini enforces stricter COVID-19 regulations: 