Power utility Eskom says it has not been affected by Cyclone Eloise. The tropical cyclone started off the coast of Mozambique before moving inland affecting our neighbour Zimbabwe as well as Limpopo, Mpumalanga, and KwaZulu-Natal. The power utility, which gets some of its electricity from the Cabora Bassa Dam in Mozambique, says it will continue to monitor developments. “Eskom wishes to inform the country that the tropical storm Eloise has, at this point, had no major impact on operations. With the heavy rains continuing, Eskom will continue to monitor the storm and its impact on operations. And should there be there a need for further communication, we will alert the country timeously,” says Eskom Spokesperson Sikhonathi Mantshantsha. Impact of Cyclone Eloise In Mpumalanga, the Department of Co-operative Governance and Traditional Affairs is assessing the damage caused by tropical storm Eloise. Areas in the Ehlanzeni region in the north-eastern part of the province seem to be the hardest hit. Many roads are flooded and at least 100 houses have been damaged. More than 100 houses in the Bushbuckridge area alone, have been damaged by the heavy storm that hit some parts of the province at the weekend. Most of the affected areas are at Cottondale and Mkhuhlu. Some of the houses have collapsed while others have had their roofs blown off. The affected families spent the night in temporary shelters. Businesses are also affected. Community members are now appealing for assistance. “I just tried to hide myself under the table because the wind was blowing too much. I tried to cover the kids and took them under the table as well. My stock is already wet my chickens are gone – 16 chickens gone. It’s a stock of R14 000.” A discussion on Cyclone Eloise:  Spokesperson for the Bushbuckridge Local Municipality, Aubrey Mnisi, says they are providing temporary relief to the affected families. “We made arrangements to accommodate those that didn’t have a shelter overnight to a church. We have provided tents … we have also provided sponges and blankets. Catering was arranged for those who slept in the church. Our disaster management officials are on the ground trying to make an assessment to quantify the damage so that we can have a proper understanding of what needs to be done with proper relief materials.” Meanwhile, the Department of Co-operative Governance and Traditional Affairs says most areas suffered flooding and many roads are affected following the persistent rains. Spokesperson George Mthethwa says the situation is being monitored. “At Tekwane south, several houses were flooded and it is heard that if the rains persist some of the houses will collapse. The poor drainage system is also what we have observed. Further assessment is being made.” The road between Ngodwana and Elandshoek on the N4 had to be closed and motorists have been urged to use the Schoemanskloof road. In Nkomazi, the farming community has been hit.