The global COVID19-related death toll has breached the two million mark, with over 93.7 million infections recorded since the pandemic began in late December 2019. Nearly 67 million recoveries have been registered. Many countries are now battling new variants of the virus which seem to be more infectious, but which scientists say do not cause more severe illness. United Nations Secretary-General Antonio Guterres has called on vaccine manufacturers to deliver on their promise of working with the World Health Organisation’s COVAX facility. “In the memory of those two million souls, the world must act with far greater solidarity. Now is the time and the UN is supporting countries to mobilise the largest global immunisation effort in history. We are committed to making sure that vaccines are seen as global public goods, people’s vaccines. That requires full funding for the access to COVID-19 tools accelerator and COVAX facility. The world’s leading economies have a special responsibility yet today we are seeing the vaccine vacuum. Vaccines are reaching high-income countries quickly while the world’s poorest have none. Science is succeeding but solidarity is failing.” Global solidarity Antonio Guterres says the coronavirus pandemic can only be defeated with global solidarity and he’s called on richer nations to provide any surplus doses of the vaccines to poorer nations. Guterres says vaccine manufacturers must work with the WHO’s COVAX facility to ensure equal distribution. “Some countries are procuring side deals, even procuring beyond needs. Governments have a responsibility to protect their populations, but vaccine nationalism is self-defeating and will delay a global recovery. We need manufacturers to step up their commitment to work with the COVAX facility and countries around the world to ensure enough supply and fair distribution. We need countries to commit now to sharing excess doses of the vaccines. To gain public trust, we must boost vaccine confidence and knowledge with effective communication grounded in facts. Our world can only get ahead of the virus one way, together.” UN calls on COVID-19 vaccine manufacturers to work with WHO’s COVAX facility: 