African National Congress (ANC) Secretary General Ace Magashule has reiterated that the unity of the tripartite alliance will always be the main focus for the movement. The alliance comprises of the ANC, South African Communist Party (SACP), Congress of South African Trade Unions (Cosatu) and South African National Civic Organisation (Sanco). Magashule delivered a message of support to the SACP as the party commemorates 26 years since the passing of its former chairperson, Joe Slovo.  Remembering the late Commander Joe Slovo……… When we were part of the underground structures of our movement there as one name that made us comfortable in song and deed that our armed struggle for a non racial South Africa was legitimate, that name was Commander #JoeSlovo pic.twitter.com/RAKIPydPI9 — Panyaza Lesufi (@Lesufi) January 6, 2021  He says it is the role played by the likes of Slovo that saw South Africa becoming a democratic country. This as the role of the alliance is questioned by many in society. However, Magashule says all is still well and unity will forever be preached. “On behalf of the ANC National Executive Committee, we take this opportunity to thank the South African Communist Party, for keeping alive the monumental contribution of this outstanding revolutionary of our movement. The unity of our alliance is the unity of our people and a continuation of our revolution. And I want to say forward with socialism.” SACP’s 26th commemoration of the death of Joe Slovo:  Slovo died on this day in 1995. At the time, he served as Minister of Housing in the first administration of a democratic South Africa under the late President Nelson Mandela. Slovo also participated in the drafting of the Freedom Charter in 1955 and later became the Chief of Staff of the African National Congress (ANC) armed wing Umkhonto we Sizwe. At the first Consultative Conference of the ANC held in Zambia in 1985, he became the first white person to be elected into the National Executive Committee of the ANC. Slovo also served as the SACP General Secretary from 1986 to 1991 before the late Chris Hani took over. 