Limpopo Transport and Community Safety MEC, Mavhungu Lerule-Ramakhanya is overseeing the disinfecting of taxis and ranks across the province in an effort to contain the spread of COVID-19. This follows reports of increasing cases of coronavirus infections amongst drivers, which poses a serious health risk to commuters. Lerule-Ramakhanya has also distributed decontaminating equipment to taxi associations and municipalities. He has taken to disinfecting taxi ranks around Polokwane, in an effort to contain the spread of COVID-19. This is as taxi ranks were identified as hotspots for the spread of COVID-19:  The MEC expressed concern about people who do not wear masks and fail to maintain social distance at taxi ranks. “We are focusing on two issues; we are talking to the taxi drivers on the importance of the masks because when they are at the taxi ranks they need to always wear their masks and keep the social distancing. Number two; we are distributing the disinfectants through the office of the executive mayor and the taxi association to say let’s disinfect the taxis and the taxi rank.” Commuters have applauded the MEC for implementing the measures at taxi ranks. “It will eliminate the spread of this virus. It is awesome because we will be safe after they sanitise,” says one of the commuters. A representative of the associations, Frans Kgasago says they appreciate the government’s efforts. “We will never say it is enough. But the little that they have provided as associations, we felt, as different associations said, ‘half a loaf is better than nothing.'” The executive mayor of the Capricorn District Municipality, John Mpe, who was also at the taxi rank, says they are worried about deaths related to COVID-19, especially those of municipal officials. “We have already been experiencing infections in municipal offices. I think you have learnt that here in Polokwane there are also five employees who also passed on; there are also three employees in Blouberg; there is also one employee in Lepelle Nkumpu who has passed on. All in all, we have 10 employees who have passed on and there are those who have been confirmed to be positive. So, while we are doing this, we are also worried that we also need to protect our employees.” MEC Lerule-Ramakhanya will continue with the disinfection of taxi ranks in the Vhembe District Municipality on Friday.