The State Capture Commission will continue to hear State Security Agency-related evidence from the Acting Director General at the SSA, Loyiso Jafta, on Tuesday. This follows testimony by the former Chairperson of the High Level Review Panel into the SSA Sydney Mufamadi on Monday. Mufamadi painted a disturbing picture of an agency captured by factions of the African National Congress (ANC), conducting illegal operations and hemorrhaging money over the last 10 years. Jafta is expected to shed light on the current status quo. January 8 On Monday, Mufamadi cited a report of an operative boasting about efforts to thwart then-Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa’s presidential campaign at the party’s January 8 birthday in Rustenburg in 2016 and at the State of the Nation Address in that same year. “And it also says that during the February State of the Nation Address the unit was “able to penetrate and infiltrate the leadership of the Zuma Must Fall movement. The initial Zuma Must Fall indicated that over 5000 people would embark on Parliament but with efficient and effective countering actions and the dissemination of disinformation to supporters of Zuma only approximately 50 supporters of Zuma Must Fall attended the march.” VIP Protection Mufamadi says the State Security Agency provided VIP protection for a number of people, a function that under the law is reserved for the South African Police Services (SAPS). “You had people such as the former chairperson of the SSA Ms Dudu Myeni, the former National Director of Public Prosecutions Shaun Abrahams, the ANC Youth League President Mr Collen Maine and the Former Head of the Directorate of Priority Crime Investigations General Yolisa Mabhatha the SAPS were not able to tell us a threat analysis which justifies protection by the state for these individuals.” Auditor-General Mufamadi says the Auditor General has been forced to automatically issue a qualified audit of the SSA every year. He says according to the AG this is because he is not provided with access to information to verify the finances and assets of the SSA and determine the extent to which performance targets have been met. Mufamadi gives the example of the AG’s report of 2017/2018 on the SSA. “During the audit, management was unable provide documentation to verify operational expenditure of 125.6 million or that the money was used for the intended purpose the AG was unable to confirm redundant assets in excess of R9 billion, he was unable to confirm the reported irregular expenditure of 31.3 million as stated in the financial statements.” Chief Executive Officer of the Organisation Undoing Tax Abuse (OUTA), Wayne Duvenage on Mufamadi’s testimony: