Accused number one in the Thorisho Themane murder trial at the High Court in Polokwane, Limpopo, has told the court that the deceased was allegedly murdered for something he did not do. Two high school teenagers, three others who are now over 18 years old and two adults are facing trial for Themane’s 2019 murder. The teenagers were part of two high school gang groups around Polokwane. They had been drinking alcohol when they assaulted Themane at Fauna Park and left him unconscious. He later died in hospital. The court has heard that the deceased was accused by one of the teenagers of taking his cup. After Themane was badly assaulted with bottles of beer, the teenager who is accused number one in the case, then informed his friends that Themane is not the one who took his cup. National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) spokesperson, Mashudu Dzhanzhi, says the trial is in-camera as some of the accused are still minors. “This murder trial is of Thorisho Themane is under Children Court; although we have two adults accused. Any criminal court can be available to be chandelier’s court if a need arises. This case will be dealt with under the Children Court Act since some of the accused are minors.” Dzhanzhi Malabi says the accused told the court they were under the influence of liquor when they attacked Themane. They assaulted him with open hands, kicked him, and hit him with bottles of alcohol. “Both witnesses testified that they were drinking alcohol when they assaulted Themane with open hands, kicked him, and further hit him with bottles of alcohol. They further stated that the deceased tried to run away for rescue to the church however the doors were closed. He then ran to the near bushes where they assaulted him, they invited the Rosh gang to join them in assaulting the deceased. They further mentioned that accused number three said come and see Big Five commit the murder while continuing to assault him.” She says from the witness’ testimony Themane was assaulted and died for something he allegedly did not do. “Accused number one asked the deceased about the cup and he never uttered a word. Later the owner of the cup looked at him and said he is not the one who took his cup. He was left at the scene unconscious, the trial will continue from sixth to the 9th  of April for further evidence,” says Malabi. In the video below, SABC News reporter Lutendo Bobodi reports from the crime scene: 