Government leaders should take the COVID-19 vaccine in public to demistify myths surrounding the vaccine and show citizens that it is safe. This is a call by Eastern Cape Premier Oscar Mabuyane as the province gears itself up to vaccinate 3.7 million people to achieve the mountainous task of defeating COVID-19. The provincial government says that it is expecting the Astra Zeneza-Oxford University vaccine to be distributed by the national government. The Eastern Cape government is ready and all systems are in place to vaccinate the 3.7 million people in the province. This is 67 % of the population, but excludes those below the age of 18. It says that it will be carried out by 500 health workers. The province has the highest number of COVID-19 deaths in the country at 9510. Premier Oscar Mabuyane has urged people not to listen to negative theories about the vaccine. “We want to dispel the myth and conspiracy about the vaccine. The pandemic we are dealing with is nothing to joke about. People must stop paddling uninformed information about the vaccine. We have health authorities in this country that will ensure we receive a safe vaccine that has gone through rigorous scientific analysis.”

Health Minister Zweli Mkhize says the government is ready for vaccination:  Other stakeholders supporting the government’s vaccination plan Traditional leaders are also fully behind the vaccination process and have vowed to spread the word with awareness campaigns in communities. “Once the vaccination is certified and we are satisfied that the vaccine is indeed the right one, we will have to lead by example ourselves and get vaccinated publicly, so that the public can realise it’s the vaccination that they need to follow. And more and above, we will have to tell our people and counsel them to make them understand because we have had vaccines before. It’s not the first time, and we sat with our people and talked to them and many lives were saved. We will do the same thing now,” says Provincial Contralesa Chairperson, Chief Mwelo Nonkonyana. A significant proportion of the province’s population lives more than 5km from a healthcare facility, but most communities have a school nearby. Acting Head of the Department of Health, Dr. Sibongile Zungu says they are addressing this matter. “We are aware that for many people living in the rural areas, access to getting the vaccine may be a problem, hence we are identifying schools that we can use as vaccine sites. We don’t want anyone to be left behind and we will make sure we use nearby facilities such as schools so that everyone gets vaccinated.” The first phase of the rollout is aimed at healthcare workers. Phase 2 will target essential workers; people over the age of 60; people with underlying health conditions that increase their risk of severe COVID-19, and people in congregate settings such as prisons. The third and final stage includes all remaining adults. Minister Zweli Mkhize explains how the vaccine will be rolled out: 