Healthcare workers, including doctors, have in recent months been calling on government and the South African Health Products Regulatory Authority (SAHPRA) to allow for the legal use of the human formulation of Ivermectin to treat COVID-19. This comes as several investigators have reported that when tested in the laboratory, Ivermectin, widely used drug for the treatment and control of parasites in animals, inhibits replication of coronavirus. However, SAHPRA’s stance is that the drug is not indicated nor approved by them for use in humans. INFOGRAPHIC: Facts about Ivermectin sabcnews.com | SABC News channel | SABC Radio news FACTS ABOUT IVERMECTIN Healthcare workers are calling on government and the South African Health Products Regulatory Authority to allow for the legal use of the human formulation of Ivermectin to treat COVID-19 * Ivermectin is a widely used drug for the treatment and control of parasites in animals and is used to treat several tropical diseases in humans not commonly seen in SA.  * Ivermectin is a synthetic derivative of the antiparasitic class of compounds known as avermectins. WHAT IS IVERMECTIN? * In SA ivermectin is registered for use under Act 36 of 1947 (Department of Agriculture) for use in animals.  *Only veterinarians and other trained personnel are allowed to prescribe it as an antiparasitic agent for a variety of animals.  *The drug is not currently registered for human use, but SAHPRA occasionally grants Section 21 permits for the use of topical ivermectin as an unregistered product for the treatment of individual patients with conditions such as scabies or head lice. Attendance of a funeral is limited to a maximum of 50 persons.  If the venue is too small to hold 50 persons observing a distance of at least one and a half metres from each other. then not more than 50 percent of the capacity of the venue may be used.   Night vigils and after-funeral gatherings "after- tears" are not allowed.  The duration of a funeral is restricted to a maximum of two hours.  HRS FUNERALS * Several investigators have reported that when tested in the laboratory, ivermectin inhibits replication of coronavirus.  * In relation to ivermectin use for COVID-19, Ivermectin is not indicated nor approved for use in humans.  *There is no confirmatory data on ivermectin available as yet for its use in the management of COVID-19 infections.  *In terms of safety and efficacy there is no evidence to support the use of ivermectin and we do not have any clinical trial evidence to justify its use.      AMENDED LEVEL 3 AMENDED LEVEL 3 Source: SAHPRA REGULATIONS SAHPRA'S VIEWS ﻿ON IVERMECTIN & COVID-19 (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document));