Two people have died and an unconfirmed number displaced by tropical storm Eloise. Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs Minister Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma accompanied by Mpumalanga, Limpopo and Kwa Zulu-Natal MECs updated the nation on the tropical storm and heavy down pours that are experienced in some areas of the country. Tropical storm Eloise started in Mozambique where it has caused massive damage to infrastructure and left fatalities in its wake. It was termed tropical depression when it made landfall, as it lost energy. Nkosazana Dlamini- Zuma is warning that the worst is not over yet. “We have been coordinating because the Disaster Management Centre, nationally, has been coordinating with Disaster Management in those three provinces. But we are tracking the storm and the weather service colleagues will give us more updates but the storm has now moved to southern Botswana. But we are informed that it will come back into South Africa again, and maybe (to) more provinces like North West, Free State.” Update on disaster response measures to mitigate the impact of tropical storm Eloise: SABC Digital News compiled pictures of some of the devastation caused by Eloise. storms by SABC Digital News Limpopo’s Social Development Department remains on high alert to provide relief to people who are affected by tropical storm Eloise. Rains have already flooded some areas in the Vhembe district. Department Spokesperson Witness Tiva says storm victims will be provided with food parcels and blankets amongst other essentials. Tiva says, “The Department of Social Development is ready to provide relief which includes food parcels, blankets and other basic amenities to displaced family’s. The department’s agency, Sassa, has also made 600 blankets and sanitisers available to ensure that we respond promptly as an assessment will be conducted by our officials on the ground.” Bridge washed away at Tshitavhadulu village A make-shift bridge has been washed away at Tshitavhadulu village outside Thohoyandou in Limpopo. Several houses and vehicles were submerged. Makeshift bridge washed away:  Discussion on tropical storm Eloise: