EFF deputy president, Floyd Shivambu says the party will table a Bill in Parliament next month to synchronise elections and postpone them to 2024. Addressing a media briefing on Thursday afternoon, EFF leader Julius Malema called for this year’s local government elections to be postponed for fear of it becoming a super spreader event for the coronavirus. EFF Press Conference addressed by the CIC Julius Malema: Shivambu says tabling the Members’ Bill in Parliament could fast track the process to amend the Constitution. “Instead of having separate national and provincial elections and separate local government elections we are of the view that elections should be one in South Africa. It’s not just cos of corona, so if we were to table the Constitutional Amendment Bill just now in February when parliament reopens we can then conduct virtual public hearings and submissions and get the views of the whole of South Africa on synchronisation of elections and if there’s consensus, we can then be able to expedite the amendment of the constitution.” ActionSA slams calls for postponement of local government elections ActionSA has slammed calls for the delay of the 2021 local government elections made by EFF leader Julius Malema following a media briefing by the party. The party made the call in a statement on Thursday afternoon following EFF’s media briefing in which they called for the postponement of the elections. ActionSA says the calls would generate a constitutional crisis for municipal governments, forcing them to operate “without the mandate they require from South Africans.” ActionSA has also questioned the call made by the EFF and the African National Congress’s (ANC) Magashule faction to delay the elections as a threat of coalition between the two parties. The statement reads: “Why the EFF and the Magashule faction of the ANC have joined forces to delay the 2021 local government elections?” ActionSA went on to threaten to take action against the South African government should a postponement be made. “I remind the South African government, the ANC and now the EFF, that any move to breach our constitution and delay this year’s elections, will be challenged in court by ActionsSA. 