President Cyril Ramaphosa will deliver the eulogy at the funeral of Minister in the Presidency Jackson Mthembu in eMalahleni, Mpumalanga tomorrow. Ramaphosa has accorded Mthembu an Official Category One funeral. Ramaphosa has also ordered that the flags be flown at half-mast from this morning until tomorrow. Mthembu died on Thursday from COVID-19 related complications. Deputy President David Mabuza will pay tribute to him at his memorial service at the Government Communication and Information System Auditorium in Hatfield, Pretoria on Monday. The memorial was originally scheduled to take place today but has since been postponed to Monday following consultations between the Presidency and the late Minister’s family. “The memorial service for the late Minister in the Presidency, Jackson Mthembu will now take place on Monday the 25th of January, with the Deputy President David Mabuza delivering the keynote tribute.  The Official Funeral Category 1 will proceed as previously announced, on Sunday, 24 January at the Minister’s home town of Emalahleni, Mpumalanga. President Cyril Ramaphosa will deliver the eulogy at the funeral which will take place with strict adherence to COVID-19 regulations pertaining to funerals and the prohibition on public gatherings, ” the Presidency said in a statement. Meanwhile, politicians have been visiting Mthembu’s home in Emalahleni to pay their respects. Most of Mthembu’s colleagues battled to hold back tears as they conveyed messages of condolences to his family. Mpumalanga acting ANC secretary Lindiwe Ntshalintshali has fond memories of Mthembu. What we have learned from him is to stand by the principle and to stand by the things that he believes in and it was not possible that you would change his mind if it’s not what he believes in. Positions never changed comrade Jackson, we’ve lost a lot as Emalahleni and as the ANC in Mpumalanga. We’ve lost a servant of the people, a humble servant that was serving at all levels with or without any deployment. Tributes continue to pour in for the late minister:  Special broadcast on Mthembu’s passing: 