The community of Westbury, just outside Johannesburg, has expressed outrage at the recent upsurge in gang-related shootings in the area that’s claimed several lives and left many others wounded. In the latest incidents, three people were shot dead on Sunday night in two separate attacks. Two of the victims, Edmund Johnson and Leverge van-Louw, were laid to rest yesterday. Police have yet to make any arrests. Tragic scenes unfolded in Westbury on Sunday night, after gunmen shot and killed three people in separate incidents, just hours apart. In the first incident, Gavin Weighly was gunned down in his vehicle. A resident, who chose to remain anonymous in fear of victimization says, “While they were pushing the car the suspects walked passed them and then they turned around and then when they started taking out their guns to shoot, the other guys ran when the shots started and the other guy got down in the car to hide but Gavin couldn’t get away because his intention and his main focus was on his son because he is a 10-years-old and that is when he got shot because he was trying to cover for his son.” Two hours later, Edmund Johnson and Leverge van-Louw, were then targeted just a few streets away. They were both laid to rest in separate funeral services in Westbury. Johnson’s father Gabi says he still doesn’t know why his son was killed. “I actually don’t know what transpired when the whole event took place. But around 10 o’clock some boy came and called for me screaming and said please hurry up because Leverge has been shot. Upon arriving at the scene I found him lying there shot through the head and he was only alive for about 2 minutes and then he passed on afterward.” Over the years, Westbury has witnessed dozens of gang-related shooting incidents, as rival gangs battle for control of the drug trade in the area. Several innocent bystanders have also lost their lives after being caught in the crossfire. Community leader Shahiem Ismail says the gang wars are hurting everyone in the community. “The entire community and neighbouring communities in our surroundings are very negatively affected and hurt by these shootings every time this violence erupts you know. Youngsters are being injured and some are passing on. And everyone is in pain and as a parent hurt and brothers and friends you know and even for those who get arrested it feels like they start to lose hope in life.” The police’s Anti-Gang Unit’s task team has been deployed to the area.  Last year in June, Westbury residents called for military deployment following a surge in gang violence. Three people were shot and killed in the area in renewed gang violence. In the video below, Westbury sees a resurfacing of deadly gang violence: 