The re-elected Nelson Mandela Bay (NMB) mayor, Nqaba Bhanga, has vowed to bring to book all politicians who have misused their power by hindering the smooth proceeding of any council agenda. He issued the warning during a media briefing at the council chambers following an urgent special council meeting that honoured a court order to have a mayor re-elected. Cooperative Governance MEC, Xolile Nqatha, approached the court earlier this month to declare Bhanga’s election invalid. The court suspended the invalidity of the election for seven days, ordering an urgent meeting in which Bhanga was re-elected. During the election that was under dispute – Bhanga was elected in the absence of a municipal speaker. The city manager also refused to preside over the sitting, saying he had received threats. The manner in which things unfolded resulted in a lot of controversy around his election. “Any person who has used the money of the municipality irregularly, remember stopping the election of a mayor – it is in the Constitution of South Africa that a mayor must be elected and therefore there is no legal discussion about it. Therefore what was being done here trying to use taxpayers’ money to stop the Constitution is illegal. How do you do that? That must have consequences,” he says. Bhanga re-elected Nelson Mandela Bay Metro mayor:  Despite a fresh election process – Bhanga is still confident that his first election was lawful. He says the truth was bound to prevail. “I admitted to have a re-election only just to show people that we want to operate in a peaceful environment and we want to teach our children that. There are different and modern ways to do things. Democracy should not be about weapons and I couldn’t live with a cloud that I was elected when there were guns. I wanted to correct history that a democratic process about peace, now peace has been restored. I knew that.” A long road ahead, but first, opening up the economy and reversing the impact of COVID-19. Bhanga says: “We have 368 cases by Wednesday, our hospitals have capacity. Beds have opened. I think we are ready to open up the economy in the city.” Political analyst Ongama Mtimka says that the only thing that NMB residents are looking for, is stability. “If you look at the personalities of the leaders, it’s sensible people who are not going to have over baring demands that cannot be met by the coalition, what that does is it goes very well for stability within the DA- led coalition and will ensure that there is a focus on political administration,” he says. Cooperative governance MEC, Xolile Nqatha has welcomed Bhanga’s re-election. He says he is a firm believer that good governance cannot be secured based on the power grab, but only through democratic and due processes.