Health minister Dr Zweli Mkhize has expressed concern that people still attend funerals in large numbers in some areas. COVID-19 regulations stipulate that not more than 50 people are allowed to attend a funeral. Mkhize visited various healthcare centres in KwaZulu-Natal on Monday to assess the situation. The province currently has the most active coronavirus cases in the country. Mkihze has urged religious and traditional leaders to play a role in regulating the number of people attending funerals. He says, “We still get reports of areas where the funerals are still attended by a large number of people and sometimes when people attend, the following week you start seeing more who are getting infected, so funerals still remain a concern. It’s very important that families as painful as it is, we do understand it. We should not actually start touching the body, going back to wash the body and if we have to view the body, there is a procedure that must be done with the supervision of those who are trained to do it so that we don’t spread – so you don’t lose one member and then spread the infection to even more members.” Level 3 lockdown funeral regulations: Minister Mkhize briefed the media following visit to KZN clinic and hospitals: Funeral parlours SA Funeral Homes, a company that supplies coffins to funeral parlours in South Africa say they are struggling to keep up with the demand, as the number of COVID-19 related deaths continue to rise. In the video below, in Nelson Mandela Bay some parlours are running out of coffins: INFOGRAPHIC: Amended level 3 lockdown regulations: sabcnews.com | SABC News channel | SABC Radio news SA COVID-19 AMENDED LEVEL 3 LOCKDOWN REGULATIONS MASKS The wearing of a face mask is mandatory for every  person when in a public place. Public places include the workplace, public transport and retail stores.   Any person who does not wear a mask in public will be committing an offence. On conviction, they will be liable to a fine or imprisonment for a period not exceeding six months or to both a fine and imprisonment.  CURFEW Every person is confined to his or her place of residence from 9PM until 5AM daily, unless a person: Has been granted permission through directions by the relevant Cabinet member or a permit to perform a service. Is attending to a security or medical emergency GATHERINGS 1.5 metres Every business premises must determine the maximum number of staff and customers permitted at any one time while maintaining a distance of 1.5 metres between people.H   Health protocols must be observed at gatherings, including maintaining a distance of at least 1.5 metres between people.  Attendance of a funeral is limited to a maximum of 50 persons.  If the venue is too small to hold 50 persons observing a distance of at least one and a half metres from each other. then not more than 50 percent of the capacity of the venue may be used.   Night vigils and after-funeral gatherings "after- tears" are not allowed.  The duration of a funeral is restricted to a maximum of two hours.  HRS FUNERALS Closing time for non-essential establishments, whether indoors or outdoors, is 20H00. This includes restaurants and bars. 20h00 Indoor and outdoor social gatherings, religious gatherings, political events, traditional council meetings and gatherings at sports grounds are prohibited.  Where there are exceptions, such as restauranrs, museums and gyms, no more than 50 people are permitted indoors and no more than 100 people outdoors- and may not exceed more than 50% of a venue's capacity.  All beaches, dams, lakes, rivers, public parks and public swimming pools in hotspot areas will be closed to the public. AMENDED LEVEL 3 AMENDED LEVEL 3 AMENDED LEVEL 3 AS ANNOUNCED ON 11 JANUARY 2021 Botanical gardens, national parks and other parks where access control measures and entry limitations may remain open to the public. sabcnews.com | SABC News channel | SABC Radio news Source: South African government sabcnews.com | SABC News channel | SABC Radio news Source: South African government 20 land ports of entry will be closed until 15 February 2021 for general entry and departure.  BORDERS AMENDED LEVEL 3 The sale, dispensing, and distribution of liquor for off-site consumption and for on-site consumption is prohibited.    Alcohol sales from retail outlets are not permitted.   ALCOHOL Beitbridge Lebombo Maseru Bridge Oshoek Ficksburg Kopfontein  CLOSED BORDERS - transportation of fuel, cargo and goods,  - emergency medical attention for a life-threatening condition,  - the return of South African nationals, permanent residents or persons with other valid visas,  - diplomats,  - the departure of foreign nationals,  - daily commuters from neighbouring countries who attend school in South Africa. People will be  be allowed to enter or depart the country for:  Six busiest border posts that are closed (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document));