False negative COVID-19 test rate is about 30%. This is according to Specialist Family Physician, Dr Marina Klokke. Klokke says, “The false negativity rate is approximately 30% or one in three, which is quite high, that why it very important for any person administering tests, whether it’s the antigen test or the PCR test to also adequately inform and educate the patient that there is a chance of a false negative.” SABC News spoke to some people who have tested for COVID-19 and were confused that they received a false negative result. According to the National Health Laboratory Services (NHLS), a false negative usually happens when the specimen or the sample that was summited was not of adequate quality. Dr Marina Klokke  elaborates  on the false negativity rate:  Klokke says a false negative test happens for a number of reasons. “Number one it has to do with your technique of taking the swab, so was the swab taken in the proper manner ? Then was it stored in the proper manner at your practice or at your hospital wherever the swab was taken ? They have to be kept cool, where they transported in the appropriate manner ? We saw during the first wave, when labs where completely over run that there was a delay in up to a week to actually process those tests and many of those tests degenerate after a certain amount of time.” She says the timing of the test is important because if you do the test too early after exposure and infection, the person is likely still get a very low viral load because they have not had sufficient viral replication to have built a significant viral load.  INFOGRAPHIC: What causes a false negative COVID-19 test? sabcnews.com | SABC News Channel | SABC Radio news WHAT CAUSES COVID-19 FALSE NEGATIVE TEST ? Sampling technique Storage of swab Fatigue Transportation of swab Timing of tests Muscle Pain Delay in processing tests Heart palpitations Hair loss Skin rash Sleep issues Sleep issues Lung function abnormalities Kidney Injury Many COVID-19 short-term and long-term effects are still unknown and others are still being discovered and ﻿documented. SOURCE: Dr. Marina Klokk The false negative COVID-19 test rate is about 30% in South Africa or one in three people who test. (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document)); In this audio, Virologist at the Nation Health Laboratories Service, Dr Florette Treurnicht explains in detail what a false positive test is: ‘Testing was very efficient’ A man from Johannesburg, who chose to remain anonymous says he received a false negative COVID-19 test after testing at the Sandton Mediclinic. “Testing was very efficient, I went to Sandton Mediclinic, they have a testing centre in the parking, Lancet Labs runs that facility. I had a note from my Dr to go get tested, as I presented symptoms of COVID-19, a dry cough, wheezing cough, and a heavy chest. My test had come back negative. Anonymous says he went to go test after he came into contact with a person that tested positive for COVID-19 at work. “There were people at our offices that had presented with positive tests, and I may have possibly been infected that way.” He says because he had recurring symptoms, went and tested again and the results came back positive. “So that is the thing, some are saying I may have tested too early or too late. It was about five days into the symptoms. I guess the moral of the story here is that even if you test comes back negative and you present with symptoms of COVID-19, isolate and seek further medical help.” INFOGRAPHIC: Types of COVID-19 tests: sabcnews.com | SABC News channel | SABC Radio news DIFFERENT TYPES OF COVID-19 TESTS ANTIGEN TEST - For people with active infection.  - Identifies specific viral proteins.  - It can be done using a nasal swab, throat swab or a saliva sample.  - It is reliable in picking up the fact that you are really infected. THE POLYMESARE CHAIN REACTION (PCR) - For people with active infection.  - Identifies viral genetic material, which by process of aprification is converted to DNA and multiple copies are made, which then makes it an identifiable sequence.  - It can be done using a nasal swab, throat swab or a saliva sample.  - It is reliable in picking up the fact that you are really infected. ANTIBODY TEST Attendance of a funeral is limited to a maximum of 50 persons.  If the venue is too small to hold 50 persons observing a distance of at least one and a half metres from each other. then not more than 50 percent of the capacity of the venue may be used.   Night vigils and after-funeral gatherings "after- tears" are not allowed.  The duration of a funeral is restricted to a maximum of two hours.  HRS FUNERALS - This test becomes positive two to three weeks after infection.  - Antibodies are produced by the immune system but it takes several weeks for the body to actually start building a reasonable immune response and this is why the antibody test would only become positive some two to three weeks after infection.  - It is not a suitable during acute infection but only in a retrospective way, Eg. If you had suggestive symptoms and you are wondering whether you were actually exposed and infected, then you would have an antibody test done some weeks after that infection. AMENDED LEVEL 3 AMENDED LEVEL 3 Source: Dr. Marina Klokke sabcnews.com | SABC News channel | SABC Radio news (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document));