Four years of Donald Trump’s presidency has left the Republican Party at war with itself.  Members are split between those staunchly loyal to the former president and his brand of brash populism – and moderate conservatives who believe Trump’s legacy to be toxic to the party’s hopes of winning back power in Washington. When supporters of Trump stormed the United States Capitol in the name of their president – the vast schism in the Republican party was laid bare. The rioters were spurred by their belief in President Trump’s false allegations that the election was rigged. However, many Republicans were horrified by the violence they saw, with some joining Democrats in voting to impeach the president for incitement of insurrection. Even the Senate majority leader at the time, Mitch McConnell, who has always stood by the former president, explicitly blamed him for the riot. “The mob was fed lies. They were provoked by the president and other powerful people,” he said. But other Republican lawmakers, wary of the influence he still holds over millions of voters, have played down Trump’s role in the violence. Republican Rand Paul initiated the first on-the-record test for senators of their support for convicting the former president on the impeachment charges. “This proceeding, which would try a private citizen and not a president, a vice-president or civil officer violates the constitution,” he has said. Forty-five out of 50 Republicans agreed – voting to consider stopping the trial before it even starts. That won’t happen – but it does suggest only a handful of Republicans will side with Democrats to convict the former president. “The pragmatists within the Republican party want to divest themselves in effect of what has become the toxic legacy of Donald Trump and that’s what we’re seeing with Mitch McConnell and so on but that’s not so easy – Donald Trump still has an enormous following among republicans,” says Distinguished Professor of History at the American University, Allan Lichtman. That following could lead him to run for president again in 2024. There are even reports that he’s considering forming a new political party. The battle for the soul of the Republican Party:  Lichtman says the divisions in the party are reminiscent of those which tore apart the Whig party in the 1850s, allowing the modern Republican party to emerge. “There’s a real possibility of the party splitting in two, which would mean like the Whigs, the party would be replaced by another party, you can’t have two factions of the republican party and still make them viable in a winner takes all political system like we have here. I’m not necessarily predicting that there will be a re-ordering of the party system that hasn’t happened in 150 or more years but it’s certainly a possibility,” Professor Lichtman says. However, Trump’s former national security adviser, John Bolton, believes the devotion of his supporters may start to wane. “I think it will become increasingly apparent that he’s yesterday’s news and his influence will drop dramatically,” he says, adding that: “Look, I think there’s got to be a serious conversation within the republican party. I think that has already started and I expect that to go on to try to correct the damage that Trump has done.” 