Social media reacts to passing of Minister in the Presidency Jackson Mthembu after the news that he succumbed to COVID-19 complications earlier on Thursday. He was 62-years-old. Mthembu tested positive for COVID-19 earlier in January when he went to get medical attention for abdominal pain. Mthembu had thanked everyone who has wished him a speedy recovery. I want to thank the many South Africans who have wished me a speedy recovery. As a people we must overcome Covid 19 . — Minister Jackson Mthembu (@JacksonMthembu_) January 11, 2021 Minister Mthembu was married to Thembi Mthembu – together with their children they made Mbombela (Nelspruit) their home. The Presidency released a statement expressing deep sorrow and shock. The Presidency says Mthembu was an exemplary leader, an activist, and a life-long champion of freedom and democracy. He was a much-loved and greatly respected colleague and comrade, whose passing leaves our nation at a loss. It is with deep sorrow and shock that we announce that Minister in the Presidency Jackson Mthembu passed away earlier today from COVID-related complications. Our thoughts and prayers are with his family at this time of loss. — Cyril Ramaphosa  #StaySafe (@CyrilRamaphosa) January 21, 2021  Transport Minister Fikile Mbalula expressed Mthembu’s passing with two broken heart emojis. Comrade Jackson Mthembu — Minister of Transport |Mr Fix (@MbalulaFikile) January 21, 2021  Western Cape Premier Alan Winde has extended his condolences to Mthembu’s family and friends and the African National Congress. I am deeply saddened by the news that Minister Jackson Mthembu has passed away. On behalf of the Western Cape Government, I extend my condolences to his family and friends, and to the ANC. May he rest in peace. #RIPJacksonMthembu pic.twitter.com/pwEYaT0PlS — Premier Alan Winde (@alanwinde) January 21, 2021  Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) Julius Malema expressed his hearing of the news with a broken heart emoji. Jackson Mthembu — Julius Sello Malema (@Julius_S_Malema) January 21, 2021  Democratic Alliance (DA) leader John Steenhuisen says he is devastated to learn of Mthembu’s passing. And added that it was an honour to serve along with him. Devastated to learn of the passing of Minister Jackson Mthembu. Was such an honour to serve alongside this true South African patriot. Condolences to his family and friends and the colleagues in his party. May his soul rest in peace. pic.twitter.com/z2EDUsPq7W — John Steenhuisen MP (@jsteenhuisen) January 21, 2021 DA member of Parliament Phumzile Van Damme thanked Mthembu for his hard work, kindness and his wicked sense of humour. Terribly shocking and sad news. Rest in Peace Minister Jackson Mthembu. You will be sorely missed. Thank you for your hard work, kindness wicked sense of humour. My deepest sympathises to his family, friends and loved ones. My thoughts & prayers are with you. Death be not proud. pic.twitter.com/DsNUniFx0C — Phumzile Van Damme (@zilevandamme) January 21, 2021 The Pan African Congress of Azania released a statement on social media saying they are saddened by the passing of Mthembu. PAC Statement on the passing of Minister #JacksonMthembu 21 January 2021 pic.twitter.com/9UzxXsNkdw — Pan-Africanist Congress (PAC) (@PAC_SouthAfrica) January 21, 2021  PAC is saddened by the passing of Minister Jackson Mthembu, he was the Minister in Presidency of South Africa’s government, and parliamentarian for the ANC. Previously, he served as the Whip of Parliament for the ruling ANC and as well as the national spokesperson for the ANC. pic.twitter.com/RxuGenhfYV — Pan-Africanist Congress (PAC) (@PAC_SouthAfrica) January 21, 2021  President of Action4SA Herman Mashaba says giants are falling to the disease. My condolences to family and colleagues of Jackson Mthembu. We must not allow politics to forget our humanity. Giants are falling to this disease. May he rest in peace pic.twitter.com/fBMDr0Fakw — Herman Mashaba (@HermanMashaba) January 21, 2021 DA member of Parliament Solly Malatsi has described Mthembu as a rare exception amongst ministers as he valued accountability dearly, who never shied away from difficult questions. Jackson Mthembu was a rare exception amongst Ministers as he valued accountability dearly and never shied away from difficult questions. He had an impeccable knack for banter that could defrost the most tense moments between political opponents #JacksonMthembu — SollyMalatsi (@SollyMalatsi) January 21, 2021  Broadcaster and political analyst Khanyi Magubane described the news of Mthembu’s death as a sad day indeed. A sad day indeed when we have to say Rest In Peace to Minister in the Presidency, a husband, a father and a much loved member of @MYANC Jackson Mthembu from Covid-19 related complications. Condolences to his family, friends, colleagues and to all who loved him. #RIPJacksonMthembu pic.twitter.com/7VvpRvBh1Q — Khanyi Magubane (@Khanyi_Magubane) January 21, 2021  Musician Simphiwe Dana says Mthembu was a very likeable politician. Jackson Mthembu was a very likeable politician. May his soul Rest In Peace — #BamakoIsHere (@simphiwedana) January 21, 2021  Australian High Commissioner to South Africa, Botswana, Eswatini, Namibia and Mozambique Gita Kamath says the commission offers its deepest condolences to the family and friends of Minister Mthembu. The Australian High Commission offers its deepest condolences to the family & friends of Minister Jackson Mthembu & to the South African government on his untimely passing. A tragic loss for South Africa. May his soul Rest In Peace. https://t.co/10hrOfSdLE — Gita Kamath  Australian High Commissioner (@AuHCSouthAfrica) January 21, 2021 Some on Social Media remembered the funny moments in Parliament with Mthembu ass well as a time he danced with the choir. RIP Jackson Mthembu  we’ll miss happier moments we had with you  pic.twitter.com/ulsnElvFNh — Battalion 54 (@54Battalion) January 21, 2021  Minister Jackson Mthembu dancing with the choir, always smiling#RIPJacksonMthembu pic.twitter.com/C2ZLsthykW — Nkosinati Magwa (@NkosinatiMagwa) January 21, 2021 