Health authorities in the North West have raised concerns about the increase in the daily number of deaths in the province due to COVID related complications. The province is also experiencing a daily increase in the number of new cases of COVID-19 infections. In the last 24 hours, the province has recorded another new 26 deaths bringing the total number to 783. MEC for Health, Madoda Sambatha, says the increase in the number of deaths are in the Dr Kenneth Kaunda, Bojanala and Ngaka Modiri Molema districts. Sambatha says, “The number of death is increasing. This therefore still confirms the fact that COVID-19 does kill, and our people must be very safe and ensure that they contribute to flattening the curve- because whilst we are arguing for accessibility and availability of the vaccine, many of our people may not even experience that time because they will be dead by then, as COVID does kill.” INFOGRAPHIC: COVID-19 statistics in SA: SOURCE: Department of Health  & ﻿National Institute of Communicable Diseases  CASES GAUTENG WESTERN CAPE KWAZULU-NATAL EASTERN CAPE FREE STATE LIMPOPO NORTH WEST MPUMALANGA NORTHERN CAPE 279 974 186 771 47 207 53 409 UNALLOCATED 0 9 444 739 785 DEATHS 2 462 9 132 6 946 6 318 783 496 86163 361 881 51 380 29 558 257 235  Free State  North West  Gauteng  Mpumalanga  Northern Cape Eastern Cape  Limpopo  KwaZulu-Natal Western Cape 70 511 AS AT 1 JANUARY 2021 1 337 926 37 105 7 613 470 1 098 441 12 267 254 (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document)); Lockdown regulations Police in the North West have warned liquor traders that their licences will be revoked should they continue to contravene lockdown regulations. This follows the sharp increase in non-compliance by liquor traders and members of the public, despite the country’s daily increase in coronavirus infections. Police visit various taverns in Ikageng and Khuma in Potchefstroom and Stilfontein: Taxi rank Last month, North West law enforcement agencies visited the Lichtenburg Taxi Rank to check up on compliance with COVID-19 regulations. The provincial government says despite the increase in coronavirus infections, many are still not wearing masks, wearing them incorrectly or do not keep social distancing. SABC Reporter, Tebogo Phakedi speaks to taxi passengers: INFOGRAPHIC: Amended level 3 lockdown regulations: sabcnews.com | SABC News channel | SABC Radio news SA COVID-19 AMENDED LEVEL 3 LOCKDOWN REGULATIONS MASKS The wearing of a face mask is mandatory for every  person when in a public place. Public places include the workplace, public transport and retail stores.   Any person who does not wear a mask in public will be committing an offence. On conviction, they will be liable to a fine or imprisonment for a period not exceeding six months or to both a fine and imprisonment.  CURFEW Every person is confined to his or her place of residence from 9PM until 5AM daily, unless a person: Has been granted permission through directions by the relevant Cabinet member or a permit to perform a service. Is attending to a security or medical emergency GATHERINGS 1.5 metres Every business premises must determine the maximum number of staff and customers permitted at any one time while maintaining a distance of 1.5 metres between people.H   Health protocols must be observed at gatherings, including maintaining a distance of at least 1.5 metres between people.  Attendance of a funeral is limited to a maximum of 50 persons.  If the venue is too small to hold 50 persons observing a distance of at least one and a half metres from each other. then not more than 50 percent of the capacity of the venue may be used.   Night vigils and after-funeral gatherings "after- tears" are not allowed.  The duration of a funeral is restricted to a maximum of two hours.  HRS FUNERALS Closing time for non-essential establishments, whether indoors or outdoors, is 20H00. This includes restaurants and bars. 20h00 Indoor and outdoor social gatherings, religious gatherings, political events, traditional council meetings and gatherings at sports grounds are prohibited.  Where there are exceptions, such as restauranrs, museums and gyms, no more than 50 people are permitted indoors and no more than 100 people outdoors- and may not exceed more than 50% of a venue's capacity.  All beaches, dams, lakes, rivers, public parks and public swimming pools in hotspot areas will be closed to the public. AMENDED LEVEL 3 AMENDED LEVEL 3 AMENDED LEVEL 3 AS ANNOUNCED ON 11 JANUARY 2021 Botanical gardens, national parks and other parks where access control measures and entry limitations may remain open to the public. sabcnews.com | SABC News channel | SABC Radio news Source: South African government sabcnews.com | SABC News channel | SABC Radio news Source: South African government 20 land ports of entry will be closed until 15 February 2021 for general entry and departure.  BORDERS AMENDED LEVEL 3 The sale, dispensing, and distribution of liquor for off-site consumption and for on-site consumption is prohibited.    Alcohol sales from retail outlets are not permitted.   ALCOHOL Beitbridge Lebombo Maseru Bridge Oshoek Ficksburg Kopfontein  CLOSED BORDERS - transportation of fuel, cargo and goods,  - emergency medical attention for a life-threatening condition,  - the return of South African nationals, permanent residents or persons with other valid visas,  - diplomats,  - the departure of foreign nationals,  - daily commuters from neighbouring countries who attend school in South Africa. People will be  be allowed to enter or depart the country for:  Six busiest border posts that are closed (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document));