South Africa has recorded 15 046 new coronaviruses (COVID-19) cases in the past 24-hours, this has increased the total number of infections in the country to 1 246 643. South Africa is currently seeing a resurgence in the number of infections. The country is battling a new variant of the coronavirus as well. The total number of people who have died of coronavirus complications nationally has ticked up to 33 579 after 416 new deaths were reported. South Africa has recorded 973 265 recoveries so far – with over seven million tests conducted in the country thus far. The number of active cases nationally currently stand at 239 799. Authorities are urging all South Africans to continue wearing masks, practice social distancing and regular hand washing.  Loading… (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document));  President Cyril Ramaphosa says South Africa will remain on Alert Level-3 coronavirus lockdown. This as the country continues to see an increase in the number of coronavirus cases. He says public gatherings are being prohibited across the country, except for the funerals, which also must be attended by not more than 50 people. Ramaphosa says this is done to make sure that less people are infected with the coronavirus. “Cabinet has decided to maintain the country at the Adjusted Level 3. Most of the measures that were announced in December 2020 will remain in place. Given the risk of rapid transmission, most indoor and outdoor gatherings are prohibited. This includes social gatherings, religious gatherings and political events traditional council meetings and gatherings at sports grounds.” The President says the restrictions on religious and other gatherings have to remain. “Research has identified several risks that arise from religious services and other gatherings. These include the risks associated with enclosed spaces, large groups, close proximity to others, staying for a long time in one place, and loud talking and singing.” President Cyril Ramaphosa addresses the nation:  