Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) leader Julius Malema has accused former party MP Thembinkosi Rawula of being set on tarnishing his political image. Malema has escalated his legal battle with Rawula to the Supreme Court of Appeal in Bloemfontein. This after the High Court in the Eastern Cape dismissed his defamation case against Rawula. In April 2019, Rawula claimed on Facebook that Malema abused party funds to support his lavish lifestyle. Malema has vehemently denied the allegations and is now claiming R1-million in damages from Rawula. Legal expert, Sekonyela Moeketsi, looks at possible scenarios. “The court may either, order that the person withdraws what has been said, apologise, it may also be compensation to the person who has been defamed. In other words, there could be a certain quantum of money that the court may see which may differ according to the extent of defamation.” Malema accuses former EFF MP of being set on tarnishing his political image:  Assault case against Malema and Ndlozi postponed to March Meanwhile, the assault case involving  Julius Malema and party MP Dr Mbuyiseni Ndlozi, has been postponed to March 9th, 2021, at the Randburg Magistrate’s Court, north of Johannesburg. A new witness is expected to be called in March. Malema and Ndlozi’s legal representative Lawrence Hodes wrapped-up cross-examination of Colonel Johannes Venter. Extensive use of video footage of the incident where Malema and Ndlozi are alleged to have assaulted the police officer had been used in court. Malema and Ndlozi are accused of assaulting Venter at the funeral of Winnie Madikizela-Mandela in 2018. The court played CCTV footage of the incident when Venter refused to allow Malema’s vehicle into the cemetery. Employed at the Presidential Protection Unit, Venter has told the court that both Ndlozi and Malema pushed him as he tried to explain that they can’t enter the cemetery using a vehicle, but only by foot. SABC’s Samkele Maseko reports on Malema, Ndlozi assault case: 