ANC President Cyril Ramaphosa has reminded members of their responsibility to ensure that the party wins this year’s local government elections (LGE). He delivered a virtual address of the party’s January 8 Statement on Friday to mark the ANC’s 109th anniversary. ANC President Cyril Ramaphosa’s address below:  Ramaphosa says party members must seek to endeavour that the ANC restores public confidence which has been eroded by allegations of corruption. “With governance comes great responsibility,  the ANC must win public confidence by progressively meeting the needs of the people, accounting to communities deploying the most capable cadres to positions of responsibility, managing public resources, ethically and acknowledging our weaknesses. This is the message that every ANC member should take to heart in 2021. ” Ramaphosa also said that defeating the coronavirus pandemic would lead to the revival of South Africa’s economy. The country’s cumulative number of coronavirus infections has reached 1 192 570. Six-hundred-and-six more people have succumbed to COVID-19 related complications in the past 24 hours, putting the national death toll at 32 425. According to Ramaphosa, the impact of the coronavirus pandemic on South Africa has worsened its already struggling economy. “There is still much to be done in this year of 2021. Our foremost priorities are firstly to act together to defeat coronavirus, secondly to place our economy on a path of renewal and recovery, thirdly to forge ahead with the fundamental renewal of the ANC. We continue to draw strength and encouragement from the great struggles fought by those who came before us.” ANC has the potential to return to its glory days Ramaphosa has called on all party leaders and members to avoid getting involved in internal factions, which tend to spill over to society. Ramaphosa says the ANC has the potential to return to its glory days, but only if they can root out corruption and infighting. “It was these achievements that earned the ANC the confidence and trust of the people of our country. The trust that our people have invested in us should never be taken for granted. We know that to proclaim our roles re-stride our responsibility, we must renew and rebuild our movement and ensure that it remains true to its founding values and principles.” Ramaphosa says they have declared this year as a year to fight coronavirus among other things. “To defeat the coronavirus that is confronting us, secondly to place our economy to path of renewal and recovery. Thirdly to forge ahead with the fundamental renewal of the ANC. Fourthly we must work to build a better Africa and a better world.” History of ANC January 8 statement: History of ANC January 8 Delegates of the South African Native Convention (SANC) decided to call a meeting on 8 January 1912 to consider the formation of a dynamic and unified movement that would challenge the white government. The meeting took place at Maphikela House in Mangaung Township, Bloemfontein. The Waaihoek Wesleyan Church in Bloemfontein is where the South African Native National Congress (SANNC)was formed in 1912 The race, class and gender restrictions in the SANNC began to fall away after 1917. The party’s name was changed to African National Congress (ANC) in 1923. Women were only permitted to be full members of the ANC. The Youth League was formed in 1944 by Anton Lembede. The ANC allied with the South African Communist Party 1943 1944 1946 Junior Web Developer Remote | 55k The ANC was banned from political activity in 1960. This led to the party going into exile. A military wing was formed in 1961, called Umkhonto we Sizwe (MK) On the 60th anniversary of the party in 1972, ANC President Oliver Tambo penned the first-ever January 8 statement. A look back on ANC history of January 8 events  (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document)); 