The African National Congress Women’s League (ANCWL) has joined many South Africans in wishing the ANC a happy 109th anniversary. The party’s president Cyril Ramaphosa will deliver the January 8 Statement on behalf of the governing party’s National Executive Committee (NEC) this evening. Friday marks the 109th birthday of the ANC:  Due to the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic, Ramaphosa will deliver a virtual address from Luthuli House in Johannesburg on Friday. In a statement, the Women’s League says calls on the governing party to do more to eradicate social ills. “The 109th year anniversary of the formation of the ANC happens when our country has to fight violence against women and children and the COVID-19 pandemics. We salute all the frontline workers in Public and Private Institutions serving with diligence in the fight against COVID-19 and those who fight against violence against women and children. The ANC must use its wisdom gained over 109 years to mobilise society to defeat all pandemics and social ills.” The political climate as ANC celebrates 109th birthday:  Support for leadership The League has also reiterated its call for undivided support for the leadership of the governing ANC. “We call on the ANC leadership to unite the movement for difficult times ahead. The ANC remains the only hope of the South African people and our proud heritage. The leadership collective must implement conference resolutions in full. The high level of poverty, underdevelopment, inequality and unemployment, must be confronted at all levels because the people are no longer patient.” Dr Somadoda Fikeni says ANC weaknesses alone will not amount to its demise:  Women representation The League has also paid homage to the contribution to the party by women such as Charlotte Maxeke, Madie Hall-Xuma, Ida Mntwana, Sophie De Bryn and Winnie Madikizela- Mandela, among others. The ANCWL says it expects the ANC to live up to its core values and accelerate the implementation of radical social-economic transformation. “The ANC must ensure that within all its structures and society at large, women and all marginalised communities are fully represented.  The ANC must also use its wisdom gained over 109 years of existence to dismantle the legacies of patriarchal apartheid and colonialism in South Africa. In tackling all challenges facing society, the ANCWL will remain the most reliable and trusted integral part of the ANC and will ensure that the ANC remains an even more effective instrument of liberation in the hands of the people.” On Thursday, the Head of Organising in the ANC, Nomvula Mokonyane, said efforts to deal with the coronavirus, Gender-Based Violence (GBV) and femicide will form the basis of the party’s January 8 Statement.