To address the lack of access to tests and testing services in multiple countries, the World Health Organisation (WHO) has published a yearly essential diagnostics list (EDL). The list is a basket of recommended in vitro diagnostics that, the organisation says, should be available at point-of-care and in laboratories in all countries to increase timely and life-saving diagnoses. The latest edition includes WHO-recommended COVID-19 tests (PCR and Antigen), expands the suite of tests for vaccine-preventable and infectious diseases and non-communicable diseases (such as cancer and diabetes), and introduces a section on endocrinology, which is important for reproductive and women’s health. For the first time, the list includes tests that should not be supplied in countries, either because they are not cost-effective, are unreliable, or have been surpassed by newer, easier to use technologies. “Access to quality tests and laboratory services is like having a good radar system that gets you where you need to go. Without it, you’re flying blind,” says WHO Director-General, Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus. “All countries should pay particular attention to the diagnostics space and use the essential list to promote better health, keep their populations safe, and serve the vulnerable.” The organisation says the use of accurate, quality diagnostics is the first step in the development and implementation of strategies for treatment, control, and in many cases prevention of disease and outbreaks. Their critical role in the health system has been brought into sharp focus by the current COVID-19 pandemic. “Testing affects the majority of medical decisions,” says Dr Mariângela Simão, WHO Assistant-Director General for Access to Medicines and Health Products. “In all countries, the use of appropriate diagnostic tests can help inform evidence-based treatment and responsible use of medicines, resulting in the improved allocation of resources and better health outcomes.” The EDL is an evidence-based guide that looks at disease prevalence globally and for each condition recommends the appropriate test. It aims not only to improve the health system’s capacity to reach accurate diagnoses, but also saves health resources that would otherwise be wasted on inappropriate treatment or lengthy hospital stays. WHO says this is particularly important for rural areas in low- and middle-income countries, where medical facilities and equipment may be lacking and health providers are often forced to make treatment decisions based solely on patient symptoms. The world health body says it will shortly also publish a step-by-step guide to aid countries wishing to develop a national list. So far, it has worked with Nigeria, India, Bangladesh, and Pakistan to support the development of their national EDLs and says it is currently in discussions with additional, mostly African countries, that have requested assistance to boost their diagnostic services. “The first is the Essential Diagnostics List, a basket of diagnostics that WHO recommends should be available at point-of-care and in laboratories to improve timely and life-saving diagnosis”-@DrTedros #COVID19 #ACTogether https://t.co/syD9oYwcJI — World Health Organization (WHO) (@WHO) January 29, 2021 