President Cyril Ramaphosa has announced that the late Minister in the Presidency Jackson Mthembu will be honoured with an official funeral at his home in Emalahleni, Mpumalanga, this Sunday. He was admitted to the hospital last week, following abdominal pains and tested positive for coronavirus. Mthembu passed away on Thursday at the age of 62. He will be honoured with an Official Category 1 Funeral. The national flag will be flown at half-mast at every flag station in the country from Saturday morning until Sunday. SABC Reporter Natasha Phiri is at the Mthembu home in Emalahleni, Mpumalanga:  In a statement, the Presidency says Mthembu contributed immensely to the liberation struggle and occupied several strategic and leadership roles in democratic South Africa. A memorial service will be held at 1pm on Saturday at the GCIS Auditorium in Hatfield in Pretoria. Mourners continue to arrive at the late Minister’s Ackerville home in eMalahleni, Mpumalanga, to pay their last respects. He’s been described as a humble servant of the people, whose deep laughter reverberated through every space he found himself in. Jackson Mthembu’s legacy has been memorialised by all, across the political spectrum. His colleagues from the Government Communication and Information Services (GCIS) earlier had a drive-by visit at his family home on Friday afternoon. GCSI colleagues visit the Mthembu family:  Tributes continue to pour in The Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) has paid tribute to the late Minister. EFF Deputy President Floyd Shivambu said Mthembu was incorruptible and praised him for his stance and work on land expropriation. EFF sends condolences to the family and colleagues of Jackson Mthembu:  Freedom Front Plus (FF Plus) leader Pieter Groenewald said he will remember Mthembu as a friendly and professional person who respected his colleagues regardless of political affiliation. FF Plus pays tribute to Jackson Mthembu:  Democratic Alliance (DA) leader John Steenhuisen says the news came as a great shock. “I am deeply saddened to learn of the passing of ANC stalwart and my former parliamentary colleague, adversary, and friend, Jackson Mthembu. The news of his death this afternoon comes as a great shock, and I can only imagine the devastating impact this must have on those who were close to him. On behalf of the DA, I would like to extend our sincere condolences to his family, his friends, and his party.” Steenhuisen says Mthembu was able to help parties  find compromises in parliament on key issues: 