Hundreds of people defied the COVID-19 restrictions to pay their last respects to the chairperson of the Ndzundza Mabhoko Tribal Council, Andries Mbangwa Mahlangu. Mahlangu, who was gunned down outside his parents’ home in Weltevrede, Mpumalanga, on Sunday, was laid to rest in the local cemetery. People came in large numbers to bid their leader, the son of Weltevrede, farewell. Mahlangu was described as an outstanding leader, a democrat, a traditionalist and most importantly, a values-based leader. He was a well-known activist against the apartheid and the homeland system. He also fought against corruption. George Thugwana, a community leader who worked closely with Mahlangu, says much was still expected from him. “He passed on at a crucial time; that we should combine all the Ndzundza nation so that we could be one. We are so divided, but that’s good if it’s in the hands of God. It’s fine no matter (sic) we know his life has been taken by other people. I believe and trust the security cluster of this country will help them to track down the killers.” Andries Mbangwa Mahlangu laid to rest:  The Ndzundza Mabhoko Royal family is still wondering why he was killed. Zilani Mahlangu says Mahlangu was a community builder. He says one of his goals was the fostering of unity among his family as well as the AmaNdebele people. He says his late brother had no known enemies. “We lost a hero indeed. In this time, it was time for unity. It is a year that we were preaching unity. Let us all come together and ensure that the spirit of my brother, the spirit of our brothers will be lived.” His son, Sibusiso Mahlangu, says while the family is grateful for the support from the people of South Africa, they still want to know who killed his father and why. “We would appreciate it if we would know why he was so brutally murdered. Who killed him? Who arranged the hit? We will leave this to the hands of God. Let him rest in peace.” No arrests have been made yet and the police have appealed to the community to assist them in apprehending those responsible. A memorial service was held in his honour on Wednesday: 