The State Capture Commission has heard testimony relating to various covert operations undertaken by the State Security Agency’s Chief Directorate for Special Operations (CDSO). Amongst them were Operation Justice to deal with judges colluding against the state, Operation Hollywood, aimed at spying on high profile persons and Operation Sisonke set up to stop the so-called Cape Town “poo wars”. State Capture Inquiry hears State Security Agency related evidence from an unidentified witness: According to the evidence of unidentified witness, Ms K, the majority, if not all of the projects carried out were in breach of Agency regulations. The Directorate of Special Operations within the State Security Agency was involved in a bewildering number of projects dealing with politics in the media, academia and the judiciary. Ms K concurred with the affidavit of Mr Y as read out by State Capture Commission Evidence Leader Paul Pretorious on the details of Operation Justice. “Amounts of R1.2 million and R4.5 million were regularly taken from the SSA and allegedly hand–delivered to Minister Mahlobo, who is reported to be the person making onward payments on behalf of Operation Justice. One of the implicated individuals confirmed that she had personally delivered R4.5 million to Minister Mahlobo’s office on at least three occasions. What do you say about the paragraph? To which Ms K responded, “Yes, I can confirm that, that was what was said and in writing by the implicated individual.” “In a number of projects service providers employed and paid millions of rands but it turned out they did not actually exist. With regards to the operation to guard former President Jacob Zuma‘s presidential aircraft, there was no money by CDSO to do so.” State Capture Inquiry | Inquiry continues to hear testimony related to State Security Agency: Pretorius again taking Ms K through the details, she confirmed were true. “The CDIS incurred approximately R1.5 million a month in unplanned expenditure. Given the entire CDIS budget for 2015/2016 and 2016/2017 was R48 million and R38 million, respectively, that means almost 40% of the CDIS budget was redirected from other operational activities in order to meet the requirements of this project for the alleged protection of the presidential aircraft.“ Just under R1 billion was expended by the CDSO between 2012 and 2018, according to Ms K, despite the fact that much of the scope of work performed could not be verified and no proper accounting was performed. “CDSO, as a Chief Directorate, spent just below a billion. The amount was R900 million and something. I can’t even pronounce that number. It has to be seen in the context of it’s a Chief Directorate. It is not counter intelligence in its entirety. It’s just one element under there. One element spending that kind of money and the cost drivers were the covert projects, the contact payments and all that without proper accounting.” Ms K continues her testimony tomorrow.