President Cyril Ramaphosa says it’s unbearable that those who knew and loved the late Minister in the Presidency Jackson Mthembu won’t see him again. Delivering Mthembu’s eulogy at his funeral in Ackerville, Mpumalanga, Ramaphosa said they will miss his kindness and ever-present sense of calm. President Ramaphosa’s eulogy:  Mthembu passed away on Thursday due to COVID-19 related complications on Thursday. Ramaphosa says this is a great loss and a time of great difficulty. “He was a voice of reason but he was also a voice of great wisdom which he exemplified in the advice that he gave me as a Minister in the Presidency. Not a single day would go past without him calling me for some matter or other. At times he would just call just to say how are you Mr President. He was faithful and loyal.” President Ramaphosa says he has lost more than a colleague and comrade, but a friend in the late Mthembu. Ramaphosa described Mthembu as someone who had a generous spirit. Below is the President’s eulogy:  Below is the funeral service of Minister Jackson Mthembu:  The daughter of the late Mthembu, Thuli paid tribute to her father. She spoke of the fond memories they will cherish of their father. Thuli’s tribute to her father:  Thuli says amongst other things they will miss most about their father, is his sense of humor. “You taught us so much without saying anything at all, you taught us that hard work and humility are two peas in a pod, like prayer and patience. I am sad that you won’t be teaching all of this to our kids. I will miss you saying ‘ngifuze wena’-i look like you, when people say I am beautiful because like you always said, you are handsome and beautiful.” Call for South Africans to deepen the fight against COVID-19 African National Congress (ANC) Deputy Secretary-General Jesse Duarte has called on South Africans to deepen the fight against COVID-19 in memory of the late minister. Speaking outside the Mthembu home in Ackerville Township on Saturday, Duarte called on citizens to protect and defend one another against the virus.  