The Liberty Fighters Network (LFN) has filed court papers to have Co-operative Governance and Traditional Affairs Minister Dr Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma jailed for six months for re-implementing level 3 restrictions. The group filed the papers with the High Court in Pretoria, saying the case is expected to be heard on Tuesday. They believe Dlamini-Zuma violated last year’s judgment, which declared several lockdown regulations as invalid. President of the LFN Reyno De Beer says they also believe that the public has been misinformed over the manner in which the government should be assisting the nation under the state of disaster. De Beer says, “We do have the Supreme Court of Appeal (SCA) challenge still and that is the reason why we are taking the minister to court for contempt of court. We will challenge this up to the end, we are going to court to challenge the latest restrictions as well…” “It is time that the people must know what is going on, the government should have paid for all the medical expenses, the funeral expenses of COVID-19 related incidents, which never occurred. The disaster in terms of the definition of the Disaster Management Act has not been complied with from the beginning,” added De Beer. NCCC media briefing on COVID-19 regulations  Dlamini-Zuma clarifies adjustments to Level 3 lockdown restrictions Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs (COGTA) Minister, Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma, says under Level 3 lockdown restrictions people are still allowed to visit, among others, restaurants, cinemas, and libraries. Briefing the media on the adjustments to Level 3 lockdown restrictions Dlamini-Zuma says, “People can still go to restaurants, casinos, libraries, archives, and galleries. They have to be 50 maximum inside and 1.5 meters apart. Outdoors, it can be 100 people if a restaurant has outdoor seating. Cinemas are the same, you can still go to the cinema or theatre but keeping to those protocols.” Dlamini-Zuma, also reiterated that the new curfew times must be adhered to. “Just to clarify, the curfew now starts at 9PM to 6AM. This means that during that time, all of us must be at except those who are working or if you have an emergency – security or medical. But otherwise, we should be home. The virus does not move, it is moved by us. The more we move, the more the possibility of the virus moving.” Level 3 restrictions will remain in force until  January 15  – when they will be reviewed. 