A group of unemployed youth from KwaBokweni in Mpumalanga blockaded a road calling for the removal of the MEC for Safety and Security and the Head of the Department. The two are accused of corruption and nepotism in the recruitment of learner traffic officials. On Wednesday, the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) in Mpumalanga laid criminal charges against officials of the department for the allegedly flawed recruitment process. Protester Eugene Manana says, “Those who are officials must be charged with nepotism and corruption and be fired from office, including the MEC of the Department of Community, Safety and Liaison which is comrade Gabisile Shabalala, the HOD himself, whom he said that the candidates are not going back.” The protesters also called for a fair recruitment process of candidates for the nursing college. The frustrated youth also demanded that the disused Elijah Mango College be converted into a FET college. Manana adds,  “When it comes to the issue of the nursing college, we want a fair process that all candidates who qualify regardless of their political affiliation must then be part of the process.” Premier Refilwe Mtsweni-Tsipane has since declared the appointment of the learner traffic officials null and void.
An investigation into the recruitment process will be conducted. The Premier’s spokesperson Sibongile Mkani-Mpolweni says, “The Premier notes the comments made by the young people, however, they must understand that the Premier works within the confines of the law. She cannot just fire the MEC and the HOD because there are allegations, a proper investigation has to be done to establish who exactly is in the wrong and those people that are in the wrong will be brought to book in terms of a proper disciplinary process.” It is not the first time that the recruitment of traffic official trainees has made headlines for the wrong reasons. Last year it was found that the recruited trainees are relatives and associates of some politicians. Some failed to qualify due to either having a criminal record or no Grade 12 certificate.