Three people have been shot and wounded and a house burnt down during a land dispute at Mamahule outside Polokwane in Limpopo. Residents were allegedly denied access to their houses by private security officers. The residents say police are refusing to open cases against the security officers. The company Blue Dot says the people want to forcefully occupy the land. Several residents are being denied access to their properties at Mamahule, near Dalmada in Polokwane. At the centre of the conflict is a piece of land. The land has been claimed by the Mojapelo clan. A resident Seemole Raophala, has lost her belongings after a house was burnt down. She’s now lodging with relatives. Raophala also says the security guards belonging to Blue Dot company owned by a business person Sthembhiso Bosch, harass them. “They shot people at the residence they said I am not allowed to access my house as I’m talking to you I’ve got no clothes I’ve got nothing my children are supposed to come back and go to school they got no home right now I’m on the streets my house was out on fire they broke the window and threw the petrol bomb inside so I’ve got nothing as I speak to you.” The company, Blue Dot, maintains that the land in question belongs to it. Bosch spokesperson Ike Kekana, says they have a title deed of the land. Kekana also says people want to invade the land. “Portion 41 Kaalfontein 100 LS is legally owned by Blue Dot people illegally sold stands there and occupied the farm illegally hence a case of fraud has been opened with the police according to reports from Blue Dot security some illegal occupants a night before brought unknown gunmen to the farm just to survey they were refused entrance by the security and then came back during the day and their aim was to take the farm over forcefully.” Meanwhile, police refute the allegation that they do not want to open cases against the security guards and owner of the company. Police spokesperson Moatshe Ngoepe says people should contact the police management if officers refuse to help them. Regarding the shooting incident, Ngoepe says it is being investigated. “The police in Polokwane are investigating three counts of attempted murder incidents that occurred at Mamahule near Dalmada outside Polokwane it’s alleged that a group of people went to the occupied land in order to discuss issues regarding this land and subsequently an argument ensued between the security officers and group of people in the process three people were injured they were taken to hospital for medical treatment there’s no arrest yet and the police investigations are still underway.” The Land and Rural Development department spokesperson Avhashoni Magada has confirmed that the portion at Mamahule belongs to Blue Dot company.