Former president Jacob Zuma’s decision to defy the Constitutional Court order to appear before the Commission of Inquiry into State Capture has brought different reactions from the political spectrum. On Monday, Zuma vowed not to cooperate with the commission, despite last week’s ruling by the Apex Court compelling him to do so. In his statement, former President Jacob Zuma reiterates that his decision not to cooperate with the commission is based on his contention that its chairperson, Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo, is conflicted and biased and should recuse himself. ANC Secretary-General Ace Magashule says there is nothing wrong with Zuma’s decision. Speaking to SABC outside the home of anti-apartheid struggle hero Moses Kotane following the passing of Kotane’s wife, Rebecca Kotane, Magashule said Zuma is entitled to his right. “I’m saying comrade Zuma, [former] president Zuma, he has his own view and he has his own rights.” To which SABC News Reporter, Samkele Maseko asked, “Why don’t you call him to order?” “Why should I call him to order, what has he done?” responded Magashule. “So he’s done nothing wrong with defying?” asked Maseko further. “I don’t see anything wrong with what he has done. Comrade Zuma’s views, the ANC has not discussed this matter. We all have different views and I respect [former] president Zuma’s views.” ConCourt ruling compelling Zuma to appear before Zondo Commission:  Responding to a question about reports that the ANC in the Eastern Cape has called for the suspension of Zuma, Magashule labelled the move as populism. “And it’s wrong for comrades to try and become populists and talk about Zuma all the time. They are populists, those who are saying Zuma must resign or be removed from the ANC. Zuma is part of the ANC.” Meanwhile, the EFF said Zuma’s decision is misguided. The party’s National Communications Manager Sixolise Gcilishe says while they agree with Zuma’s claims that the commission is biased, they urge the former president to reconsider his decision. “We know that the Zondo Commission seems to be a factional instrument to fight for the protection of [Minister Pravin] Gordhan and [President Cyril] Ramaphosa whose main interest, purpose is to safeguard the white capitalist establishment.” The DA’s Glynis Breytenbach says the only problem with Zuma’s defiance of the Constitutional Court ruling, would be if his behaviour goes unpunished. “The fact that he refuses to give evidence before the Zondo Commission simply means that charge of contempt of court should be laid and that has been done.” ATM’s Sibusiso Mncwabe said while they urge Zuma to obey the ConCourt’s decision, the commission must be objective in its work and not be seen to be fighting political battles. “Our democracy is based on constitutional sovereignty. It is for that reason we expect anyone to comply with the constitutional implications. We, therefore, urge the former president to obey, respect and accept the ConCourt decision and appear before the Zondo Commission of State Capture, but as well, we urge the commission to do its work objectively, should not be seen as fighting political battles.” COPE Spokesperson Dennis Bloem said the former president’s behaviour is disgraceful and that he must be arrested. “The law must take its course. Zuma must be arrested. Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo must issue out a summons. If Zuma disrespects that summons, then the police must arrest him. Zuma is not above the law.” Meanwhile, the inquiry’s secretary has now been instructed to open a criminal complaint against the former president. Zuma defies ConCourt order, refuses to appear before Zondo Commission: 