The Johannesburg metro police department has urged motorists to be extra cautious on the roads as traffic volumes increase due to the opening of schools. #BackToSchool: Operators are urged to ensure that their vehicles are fit and ready to #transport learners safely between home and school. To leave on time to avoid breaking rules of the road while chasing time. #RideSafe pic.twitter.com/MxKglDyLN7 — Road Traffic Management Corporation (@TrafficRTMC) February 11, 2021  #backtoschool: #RideSafe Parents Make sure you: * Enquire with the owner about Nr of learners on each trip * Make sure ur child will be properly restrained * Check if the driver has valid drivers license * Check if the vehicle is serviced &has a valid license disc pic.twitter.com/j9pdcXEcWK — Road Traffic Management Corporation (@TrafficRTMC) February 11, 2021  Metro police officers have been deployed across the city to ensure a smooth flow of traffic. JMPD spokesperson Wayne Minnaar says, “Motorists are urged to drive with extra caution today as schools reopen for the first term. Traffic volumes are likely to be heavier on main roads and drivers should look out for children and particularly near schools as children and pedestrian volumes will definitely be more today as compared to other days.” Know the High-Risk Areas for Pedestrian Safety! Slow Down near our Schools!! Road Safety and the Child Pedestrian https://t.co/4PzGgmpCUD #ArriveAlive #ChildPedestrians #RoadSafety @TrafficRTMC @RAF_SA @Dotransport pic.twitter.com/FYZmgitgtm — Arrive Alive (@_ArriveAlive) February 15, 2021  New school calendar Schools were initially supposed to reopen for learners on the 27th of last month, but this was delayed by two weeks due to the second COVID-19 wave. The department issued a new school calendar last week, which could help to give schools 40 weeks of learning and teaching during this academic year. The first term starts on Monday and will end on April 23. The second term will commence on May 3 and end on July 9. Minister Angie Motshekga made the announcement in Pretoria on Sunday afternoon. Space challenges Minister Motshekga says the demand for space in schools, especially for Grade one and Grade eight learners, remains a challenge. She says although good progress has been made in provinces, more than 16 000 learners are still awaiting spaces in schools. Health and safety The Minister says her department will continue to maintain a balance this academic year between health, safety, and dealing with curriculum gaps in schools, as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. Motshekga says the impact of the coronavirus continues to be felt in the Basic Education sector. More than 1 100 educators have passed away from COVID 19 – with over 150 teachers being lost this year alone. More on this story is contained in the video below: 