The head of the Special Investigating Unit (SIU), advocate Andy Mothibi, says 25 senior officials from various government departments and two executives are being investigated for fraud and corruption relating to violations of state procurement procedures. The cases relate to the issuing of COVID-19 contracts to non-qualifying service providers and disregarding of procurement procedures. The officials in question will also face disciplinary action in their respective departments. According to Mothibi, contracts worth R13 billion, issued during the lockdown period, are being probed. He says a total 189 complaints of corruption relating to the lockdown period were reported to the unit resulting in hundreds of service providers being probed. He further says they’ve referred some of the cases for prosecution. The unit was briefing the media on finalised investigations and outcomes relating to PPE corruption. SIU media briefing on investigations into alleged COVID-19 PPEs:  SIU’s full report on PPE procurement:  Gauteng PPE corruption scandals On Wednesday, Gauteng Premier David Makhura said he welcomed the Special Tribunal’s correction to the judgment it made in December 2020 that implicated him in PPE corruption. In an affidavit to the Special Investigating Unit, the former Chief Financial Officer of the Department of Health, Kabelo Lehloenya, had alleged that Makhura had given names of the companies that had to be appointed to supply and deliver PPEs in the province. DA wants the Hawks to investigate David Makhura regarding PPE tenders in Gauteng:  Gauteng has been marred by a number of PPE corruption scandals with the latest being millions spent to disinfect and deep-clean schools in the province. Gauteng Education said it had started interviewing its officials after more than R430 million was spent on sanitising and deep-cleaning schools in 2020 amid the COVID-19 pandemic. MEC Panyanza Lesufi said he had also written to the Auditor-General regarding investigations into the matter. “They are already in the department investigating the matter. I’m glad. When we get the report we will share it with you. The Auditor-General has acknowledged my letter. He is going to appoint people to come in here. The premier’s office, as well I, have written to look at all these things.” Over R400 million spent by Gauteng Education on decontaminating schools: 