The Progressive Professional Forum (PPF) in the Free State says it is saddened by, what it calls, the evil, inhumane and brutal attack on SABC’s Lesedi Current Affairs presenter, Dimakatso Ratselane. Ratselane was stabbed multiple times, allegedly by her husband following a quarrel. She is currently fighting for her life in a Bloemfontein hospital. Free State PPF ambassador for gender-based violence and femicide, Mannehileng Letuka, says many women abuse cases are not even reported. A high-profile team of detectives has been deployed to track down the fugitive husband:  Letuka says a huge effort is required to enhance existing GBV programmes. “As PPF in the Free State, we condemn any acts of violence against women and children. We distance ourselves from men who are involved in such acts and let these perpetrators be exposed and may the law take its course to the best of their ability and put a stop on this. And on this particular case of Dimakatso Folotsi Ratselane, we hope and we believe that this perpetrator will soon be arrested and remain behind bars,” he says. The EFF has also weighed in on the matter, wishing Ratselane speedy recovery. The party has called on the police to prioritise the arrest of her husband, while expressing disgust over the ongoing scourge of violence against women. The EFF also laments the low conviction rates of the perpetrators of GBV, saying it is caused by the justice system that’s fraught with inefficiencies. EFF Statement On The Brutal Attack Of Dimakatso Ratselane pic.twitter.com/8WxvL7P5bZ — Economic Freedom Fighters (@EFFSouthAfrica) February 13, 2021  Deep concern Meanwhile, a group of women journalists and editors in the SABC newsroom have expressed their deep concern that violence against women, including female journalists, is on the rise. SABC economics editor, Thandeka Gqubule-Mbeki, says they are shocked and devastated by the brutal attack on their colleague, but commit themselves to honour the best journalist practices of covering all forms of domestic abuse. “We are utterly gutted just to see the brutality with which our colleague was assaulted. This level of cruelty and the attempt made to dehumanise her and other women made us not to remain silent. So, a number of us gathered in the newsroom to decide what we could do. We are using our pen and lens to shine a spotlight on the scourge of society and to recommit ourselves to honour the best journalistic practices to cover all forms of abuse, rape, female mutilation, and sexual harassment. Treat the victim with dignity,” Gqubule-Mbeki says. Reaction to brutal attack on Lesedi FM anchor:  Free State premier, Sisi Ntombela, has described the incident as a painful reminder that women in South Africa are under siege. She says Ratselane was attacked at a time, government relied on people like her to educate people about COVID-19.