Some healthcare specialists in KwaZulu-Natal say their research into the use of Ivermectin for the treatment of COVID-19 has shown positive results. The College of Health Sciences at the University of KwaZulu-Natal has held a webinar unpacking the use of the drug in dermatology and potentially COVID-19. Medical researchers, who took part in the webinar, say while some studies are showing positive results for the use of the drug in the treatment of COVID-19, it must be done under strict guidelines and not through self-administration. “It’s part of the toolbox that is available for doctors to treat COVID-19.  It’s on the WHO essential drug list as part of the mass drug administration. There have been at least 3.7 billion doses that have been administered globally safety has been established at doses of 200 to 2000 microgram per kilogram data shows that there’s some efficacy in children. In South Africa it is now available through a section 21 application,” says UKZN Professor, Anisa Mosam. Public health and Communication Specialist, Dr Warren Parker, emphasises the use of Ivermectin under a supervised, medical practitioner. “The mechanism of action for moderating COVID-19 has been established in research it fits with the rationale for repurposing in the COVID-19 context it fits the bioethical rationale for COVID-19 treatment it’s justifiable for use for compassionate use the numerous peer-reviewed and other studies that confirm positive effects and this positive trend continues as part of the work that we do around ivermectin. Every couple of days we pick up the next paper and they all seem to go in the same direction it can be safely administered under medical supervision,” Parker says. He cautioned against uncontrolled public use, saying that this kind of behaviour poses a strong health risk. There are currently over 60 000 active COVID-19 cases in South Africa. Addressing Parliament’s Portfolio Committee on Health, South African Health Products Regulatory Authority (SAHPRA) CEO Dr Boitumelo Semete, said that while Ivermectin is allowed for compassionate use, there remains insufficient data to approve the drug for use in humans. Discussion on the use of Ivermectin in the treatment of COVID-19:  Earlier this month, the Gauteng High Court issued an order by agreement with SAHPRA to allow doctors to start Ivermectin treatment. However, they are only allowed to use it in critical cases and have to make a special section 21 application. 