Bursary holders from the Free State government are frustrated that they will not be able to register for the 2021 academic year. Some are still waiting for funding confirmation letters, while others have outstanding fees. Many students appear to have an uncertain future, with the registration dates fast approaching. The students say they have financial difficulties besides academic stress. A final-year student at the University of Free State, Sithembiso Tshabalala, is one of those affected. “I am going for my final year and I am trying to get all thing in order before I get to class. Imagine you have to go to class in March just after registration. So, obviously, I am frustrated and currently, trying to raise registration money,” says Tshabalala. University of Free State student, Neo Engelbrecht, is in a similar dilemma. “One of the modules that I am doing, and I have to register as soon as possible because they are closing, and they are becoming quickly full. Now, I am stressed at the same time, because now I must register, but do not have fees, nor books to study.” The students’ representatives maintain that they will fight for all funded students to register. University of Free State Student Representative Council (SRC) President Katleho Lechoo says, “We want to send a very strong message that the Premier’s bursary from time he’s been giving us a runaround and that must stop because at the end of the day you are serving people that actually look forward to this aid that is been given to them.” Frustration as some bursary beneficiaries await confirmation letters:  Government has resolved to halt the issuing of new bursaries to international students due to financial constraints. There are over 590 students who are benefiting from the bursary. Moeketsi Maeyane studies at the University of Madeira in Portugal. He says, “Some of my colleagues here are unable to register due to funds. Others are left with one, two modules, but cannot carry on. It’s really frustrating.” Mabeleng Senatla, who is studying at the same university, says, “We have not registered yet at the University of Madeira. We really understand that we were supposed to do a three-year course, but last year was rough and some students didn’t manage to finish on record time.” Government says it has R230 million budgeted for this year. The Director General of the Free State government, Kopung Ralikontsane, says they are working hard to resolve financial challenges that students are facing. “It has been exceedingly difficult to work with universities due to COVID-19 including from our side. We have had our section of bursaries closing from time to time, but the same has happened with universities. So, the liaison between ourselves and universities has been very poor. But, as we’ve tried our level best, as soon as we receive invoice from universities, we’ll pay.” Government says the matter will be resolved soon and students will be able to enroll for the 2021 academic year.