The Mayor of JB Marks Local Municipality in Potchefstroom, Kgotso Khumalo and Lekwa-Teemane Local Municipality in Christiana, Mpho Pilane, have rejected claims that they are defying the instructions of the African National Congress (ANC) Interim Provincial Committee (IPC), to step aside. They both face criminal charges. Khumalo was arrested by the Hawks in November last year. He was charged with fraud and theft amounting to R5 million, while Pilane was arrested in December. He is facing two charges of sexual assault, rape and abduction. This after he allegedly sexually assaulted and raped two girls aged 15 and 16 years. Khumalo is out on free bail while Pilane was granted bail of R1000. The ANC in the province has instructed them to step aside. Coordinator of the ANC IPC, Hlomane Chauke says, “We have already requested them to step aside. We have communicated with them. “The IPCW and officials have already processed the names of people that will be mayors. We have already communicated with the mayor of JB Marks. We will then finalise at a very short space of time and announce the person that will then take over as a mayor at JB Marks including in Lekwa-Teemane,” Chauke explains. The affected mayors believe that the request is premature, as it still needs to be discussed by the party’s national leadership. Lekwa-Teemane mayor, Mpho Pilane maintains that he is not defying the party’s instructions. “I am not defying the African National Congress and I note with caution the charges I am facing. But I believe that the issue of stepping aside is before the national executive committee of the ANC. So I believe strongly that it’s going to be one of the items that will be discussed in the NEC of the ANC where they will be developing clear guidelines that will then guide the process in terms of stepping down.” JB Marks mayoral spokesperson, Mandla Tawana, says Khumalo will subject himself before the party’s integrity commission. “The executive mayor has also clarified on record that if time allows him, he will also like to appear in the integrity committee of the African National Congress.” The IPC says they may announce the names of the new mayors before the end of this month.