KwaZulu-Natal Premier Sihle Zikalala says the African National Congress (ANC) Provincial Executive Committee (PEC) remains guided by the decision of the party’s National Executive Committee (NEC) that all members must respect the State Capture Commission and the courts. Zikalala says he believes that former President Jacob Zuma’s refusal to appear before the Commission lies with its current chair. He was speaking on the sidelines of a provincial Lekgotla. In a statement yesterday, Zuma said he will not stand before a process that he believes is biased against him. Zikalala says that he trusts that Zuma’s legal team will explore the proper legal platforms to take up the issues with the Commission’s Chair, Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo. “In the province, we have taken a view that when the former president goes to court, members of the ANC will be allowed to go to court. We are guided by the NEC decision that says all members of the organisation must respect the commission and must also respect the Concourt. The former president himself in his statement made it clear that he has no problem with the commission or judiciary and his problem is with his application for the chairperson of the commission.” Zuma’s lawyers explain their stand:  Zikalala says the PEC has not yet met with members of the uMkhonto we Sizwe Military Veterans’ Association (MKMVA) who are camping outside Zuma’s Nkandla homestead. He says the immediate task is to unite all factions within the MKMVA. “We have noted that there are comrades who have taken a view that they are going to go and defend the former president of the country, Jacob Zuma. Our primary task as of now is to unite MKMVA. While there are comrades of MKMVA who are in Nkandla there are others who are saying no the former president must not be supported. The ANC must deal with him, but the immediate task is to ensure they work together and ensure they work under one structure.” More supporters join MKMVA outside Zuma’s homestead in Nkandla: 