Mpumalanga police say a suspect has been arrested and released into the custody of his parents after a grade 11 learner died when she was allegedly hit over the head with a brick. The incident happened at the Skhukhuza Secondary School in Shatale outside Bushbuckridge. When all learners including 17 year-old Greadence Mashigo, excitedly returned to school after a long holiday due to  COVID-19, the grade 11 learner never returned home. It is alleged that a fight broke out during a game of dice. Mashigo was allegedly hit with a brick on the head by a another learner.  According to a statement released by the Department of Education, she died on her way to the local clinic. Family spokesperson, Solomon Ubisi says they want justice to prevail. “We are not satisfied we still need answers, what we want to see is that justice must prevail. These internal procedures is what we don’t want. We know that if a person committed a crime of such nature they must be prosecuted and sent to jail.” Mpumalanga Police say a suspect was arrested and has since been released into the custody of his parents. Police spokesperson Leonard Hlathi, “The minor was arrested and was due to appear before court on Tuesday, however, the case was not placed on the roll. The reason was that there was an absence of a probation office’s report so in that regard the court has rerouted our direction to say we would have to get that report. Immediately it is solved, the matter will then be taken back to court.” During his visit to Sikhukhuza Secondary School, Education MEC Bonakele Majuba made a call to learners to refrain from violent activities. Majuba urged parents to play their part in educating children on issues of moral regeneration. “There are better ways of solving problems rather than resort to violence because violence ends up in this manner. A young 17-year-old whose parents and the society at large expected a lot from. Because of violence, a student’s life has been cut short, we should inculcate to children a sense that problems must solve amicably.” The school governing body says it will engage the community and the traditional leadership in the area, to deal with unused buildings such as the one where the learners were holding their gambling games.