Free State police have obtained a warrant for the arrest of the husband of Lesedi FM current affairs presenter, Dimakatso Ratselane. Police say Mackenzie Ratselane is now regarded as a suspect who is on the run. This after many police attempts for him to contact them failed. Ratselane was brutally attacked allegedly by her husband on Wednesday night last week. She was admitted to the hospital with multiple stab wounds. The family has reported that her condition is improving. Police spokesperson Motantsi Makhele says, “From today, Monday, 15 February 2021, Mackenzie Ratselane is regarded as a suspect on the run, and will be treated as such by any law-enforcement officer who will come across him anywhere within and outside the borders of this country, as we believe he has a serious case of attempted murder to answer. The police appeal to anyone who might come across him to contact the head of the investigating team, Captain Paseka Mojaki on 082 553 7639 or call Crime Stop nr. 08600 10111.” A high-profile team of detectives has been deployed to track down the fugitive husband:  Deep concern Meanwhile, a group of women journalists and editors in the SABC newsroom have expressed their deep concern that violence against women, including female journalists, is on the rise. SABC economics editor, Thandeka Gqubule-Mbeki, says they are shocked and devastated by the brutal attack on their colleague. The group has committed to honour the best journalist practices of covering all forms of domestic abuse. “We are utterly gutted just to see the brutality with which our colleague was assaulted. This level of cruelty and the attempt made to dehumanise her and other women made us not remain silent. So, a number of us gathered in the newsroom to decide what we could do.” “We are using our pen and lens to shine a spotlight on the scourge of society and to recommit ourselves to honour the best journalistic practices to cover all forms of abuse, rape, female mutilation, and sexual harassment. Treat the victim with dignity,” Gqubule-Mbeki says. Reaction to brutal attack on Lesedi FM anchor: 