Former Security Branch Police Officer, Roelof Venter, has conceded that during the 1980s, political detainees had been tortured at the then John Vorster Square Police Station in Johannesburg. Venter has been testifying virtually at the inquest into the death of anti-apartheid activist, Neil Aggett. Aggett had been assaulted and tortured by the Security Branch and was found hanging in his cell in February 1982. Venter says he had never met Aggett even though he had interrogated other political prisoners at John Vorster Square at the time of Aggett’s detention there. Roelof Venter spent almost 30 years in the Security Branch. He says he was based at John Vorster Square for about six months from December 1981, but that he had never interrogated Neil Aggett. During cross-examination by the state prosecutor, Shubnum Singh, Venter denied physically assaulting detainees but has admitted to depriving them of sleep and subjecting them to forced exercise. Today’s proceedings at the Neil Agget Inquest:  However, Venter became defensive when probed about specific events in which detainees have accused him of physically assaulting them during interrogation. Aggett family lawyer, Howard Varney, told the inquest that the Security Branch regularly broke the law to deal with political activists. “General van der Merwe said because the Security Branch found themselves in a life and death situation, total onslaught, acting outside of the law was acceptable, including the carrying out of murders, kidnappings, and cover-ups.” “Well, I agree,” answered Venter. “And I wish to put it to you that what you said here, that any method was acceptable in the context of the onslaught, included any method of interrogation that involved physical force, that’s why you applied for amnesty for assault with intent to do grievous bodily harm.” Varney kept pressing Venter on his claim that he had nothing to do with Aggett. He pointed out that in his amnesty application, Visser had included Aggett’s name in the list of detainees he had assaulted. “So, you were happy for Dr Aggett’s name to be reflected there even though you had nothing to do with him?” “Yes, I signed,” said Venter. “But surely, you any normal person would have said excuse me, I had nothing to do with Dr. Neil Aggett, please take that name out. Why didn’t you say that to your lawyers?” Venter responded, “My Lord there was no time to explain this, because this application, of Barbara Hogan was not heard in the open court. So, no questions were asked about it. I think if it was heard by the Truth and Reconciliation Commission that could have come out and I think it was just a slip.” Venter has concluded his testimony. A new witness is expected to take the stand when proceedings resume.