The Commission into State Capture on Friday heard how the plot to oust former National Prosecutions Authority (NPA) boss Mxolisi Nxasana was hatched. The Head of Financial Investigation at the NPA, Terrence Joubert told the State Capture Commission how a colleague tried to discredit the Provincial Head of the NPA Mxolisi Nxasana. Joubert said he recorded KwaZulu-Natal Hawks Colonel Sthembiso Mhlongo who wanted to get incriminating information against Nxasana. He added that Mhlongo was also not happy that Nomgcobo Jiba was not the head of the NPA. Evidence relating to allegations of corruption and political interference at the NPA and the Hawks was given at the Commission. Joubert testified that Mhlongo worked with Advocate Nomgcobo Jiba in the alleged plot. The Commission heard that Joubert had made a recording where Jiba was heard asking Mhlongo to find incriminating evidence against Nxasana, which would be used to discredit him so that he is removed as National Director of Public Prosecution. Joubert said former Acting NDPP Nomgcobo Jiba sought to use him and Mhlongo to get rid of Nxasana soon after his appointment as NPA head in 2013. In 2019, President Cyril Ramaphosa fired Jiba after a report by retired Constitutional Court Judge Yvonne Mokgoro established that she was unfit to hold office. Joubert testifies before Zondo Commission:  Mhlongo’s testimony Earlier on Friday, Justice Raymond Zondo dismissed an application for the postponement of Mhlongo’s testimony. But due to limited time, he will be called to the stand next Thursday. In his testimony, Colonel Mhlongo is expected to refute allegations that he tipped off criminals about Hawks investigations and that he was brought in by former NPA boss Nomgcobo Jiba to discredit Nxasana. He is alleged to have tipped off Toshan Panday whom he was investigating. Panday is facing criminal charges relating to the misappropriation of about R60 million worth of contracts between the SAPS and his company, Gold Coast Trading, during the 2010 FIFA World Cup.