Families burying loved ones who died from COVID-19 related complications are accusing government of not respecting their religious beliefs. This follows a Health Department announcement a week ago that there is no need to wrap coffins in plastic and to sanitise the gravesite. The World Health Organisation also said there was no proof that someone could contract the virus from human remains. Since then, families have been demanding to view the bodies of their loved ones. Koshik Maharaj of the KwaZulu-Natal Funeral Directors’ Association says there is uncertainty among funeral parlours about the procedures because they have not been gazetted. “Everything is just merely recommendations but it hasn’t been gazetted. When the ministers sit down, they will decide whether there should be an amendment to the policies. But currently, there is no amendment and the status quo still stands. I think there’s a lot of aggrieved families today and funerals are taking place and they are not able to see the deceased. One that was brought to me is “they are gift-wrapping my father in a box” and things like that. But unfortunately, with COVID-19 funerals, we have to follow the procedures,” says Maharaj. Traditionalists call for viewing of bodies Traditional leaders in the Eastern Cape say families must be afforded an opportunity to identify the body at a mortuary. Congress of Traditional leaders of South Africa (Contralesa) provincial chairperson Chief Mwelo Nonkonyana has urged government to come up with a strategy to accommodate families in viewing the bodies. It has also emerged that a number of families have buried wrong bodies after a mix-up at funeral parlours. For centuries, rituals like a night vigil and viewing of the body have been the norm and regarded as a dignified way to bid farewell to loved ones. But the outbreak of the pandemic has forced people to make compromises. However, many families still insist on viewing the body due to the number of bodies being processed before delivery. Eastern Cape traditionalists call for a review of COVID-19 regulations for funerals:  -Additional reporting by Nkulukelo Nyembezi