Parliament’s Portfolio Committee on Health says it has noted poor record-keeping at Tembisa Provincial Tertiary Hospital, east of Johannesburg. The committee undertook an oversight visit to the hospital over the weekend following a report released recently by  Health Ombud Professor Malegapuru Makgoba after the death of businessman Shonisani Lethole at the hospital. The report found that Lethole’s file was missing. Lethole took to Twitter to seek help from Health Minister Zweli Mkhize, tweeting that the hospital was starving him. Committee chairperson Dr Sibongiseni Dhlomo says they told hospital management that clinical record keeping was important for proper handover and management of patients. Ombud’s findings:  Family calls for suspension of the hospital’s CEO The family of Lethole and the Justice for Shoni campaign have demanded the immediate suspension of the hospital’s Chief Executive Officer (CEO). The family held a virtual press conference last week Thursday after the Health Ombud released his findings on Lethole’s death in 2020. The Ombud had found that Lethole had received sub-standard care and has recommended that the Gauteng Health Department institute a disciplinary inquiry of negligence against 19 staff members, including nurses and doctors. Medical negligence to blame for Shonisani Lethole’s death: Ombudsman  The #HealthOmbud findings on the #ShonisaniLethole death are shocking. The report makes a strong case for us to reflect on the #Ubuntu deficit among us, including some of our health professionals. We need a #kindness–#Ubuntu revolution and reset for all our sakes. #SocialJustice https://t.co/1QnXMZB3Dg — Prof Thuli Madonsela (@ThuliMadonsela3) January 27, 2021  Other families demand answers from Gauteng Health In July last year, two Johannesburg families demanded answers from Gauteng Health. One family claimed their mother died after contracting COVID-19 at the Chris Hani Baragwanath Hospital after being admitted for an unrelated health problem early in June. The other family alleges negligence at the Tembisa Hospital: 