All the vaccination facilities in North West are ready to inoculate frontline workers against COVID-19. The provincial government received the Johnsson and Johnsson vaccine doses at the Job Shimankane Tabane Hospital in Rustenburg. The actual vaccination will start on Thursday, in two hospitals, Job Shimankane in Rustenburg and Klerksdorp Tshepong. Rollout of the vaccine will begin tomorrow:  The arrival of Johnson & Johnson vaccine doses is hope for South Africa. The North West has received 3 900 doses for now and according to Premier Job Mokgoro all is set and ready for vaccinations. “We have the assurance that what we are celebrating will actually be repeating itself every fortnight. We look forward to that unfolding. We would like to thank all those who have played their respective roles in bringing us to where we are.” Twenty-six public facilities and 17 private facilities will be used for vaccinations. “The 17 private sites still receive an allocation of vaccines from the provincial government because we are registered as a province, not private and public. The number we have submitted to national includes private facilities,” says North West MEC for Health Madoda Sambatha. Health Minister Zweli Mkhize earlier outlined the government’s vaccine rollout strategy:  According to Professor John Tumbu, who is the Head of Clinical Services in the North West, frontline staffers are grouped into different categories and will be vaccinated at different times. “Certain activities that happen in our institutions do actually increase chances of transmission. So, in the casualty unit, where we see patients who are needing attention, in terms of being assisted to breathe, that exposes personnel to a high risk of transmission, the same thing happens in the ICU; the same thing happens in the COVID-19 ward. So, personnel who are working on those units will be classified as Category 1.” SA’s vaccination programme officially launched South Africa’s COVID-19 inoculation programme officially kicked off in the Western Cape earlier Wednesday. President Cyril Ramaphosa and Health Minister Zweli Mkhize were among healthcare workers that were among the first to be vaccinated at Khayelitsha District Hospital. The first four workers who received the injections were Azoliswa Gidi-Dyosi, a sister in the labour ward, EM physician, Dr Sa’ad Lahri, member of the housekeeping team, Mavuyo Mpambani and admin clerk, Cwengisa Dadirai. 