The Water and Sanitation Department has opened three sluice gates at the Vaal Dam. The recent heavy rainfall over many parts of the country has resulted in the dam breaching capacity on Wednesday, reaching just over 106%. According to the Department, the Vaal Dam last recorded 100% capacity in 2017. The Vaal dam has breached its capacity. Just a few months ago, the dam level had been sitting at below 29%. The Integrated Vaal River System provides water to the Free State, the North West, Gauteng and Mpumalanga. It also supplies key entities such as Sasol and Eskom. On Thursday morning, three sluice gates had to be opened due to river flows from the upper Vaal rapidly filling the dam. Leonardo Hermanus speaks on infrastructure for the Water and Sanitation department. ”Today as the department after looking at all the hydrological data, that it will be best as the Vaal Dam is sitting at 106%, that we release some of that capacity behind the mechanical still-way so that we release at least 390 cubic metres per second. The last time that we had this type of scenario was in 2017 when we also had to open three gates at the Vaal Dam.” Water and Sanitation department spokesperson, Sputnik Ratau, says more rainfall has been forecast for the next few days. ”There has been a need to take a quick decision to release water from the Vaal dam in order to make more capacity available for the expected rain that will be coming through onto the orange river system. We expect that these rains will be over the next couple of days and as the dam was already over 100% and we were not really expecting to release water but because of this activity in the Mozambique channel we have decided that we need to release some of the water from the Vaal Dam.” In 2018, the South African National Defence Force had been deployed to clean the Vaal river that had been polluted by sewerage. Non-Profit Organisation Save the Vaal Environment or SAVE says the recent heavy rainfall will help in flushing out pollution. SAVE vice-chairperson, Maureen Stewart says, “The Vaal Dam being over 100% is really really good news for a change. So we are very pleased with it and we think that also the department of Water and Sanitation is adopting a very good approach in terms of communication to low lying lands in terms of the possibility of flooding because this is a very big volume of water that is flooding through. But the benefit is that it’s lovely fresh, clean water. That’s going to assist the pollution problem in the Vaal River, at least temporarily. But you know, generally, we are very excited about it.”