The Democratic Alliance (DA) wants to know who paid for the Economic Freedom Fighters’ (EFF) visit to former President Jacob Zuma’s home in Nkandla. DA Chief Whip, Natasha Mazzone has written to National Assembly Speaker Thandi Modise, asking for a Parliamentary investigation. Mazzone has requested that Modise instruct Parliamentary staff who oversee entitlements of MPs as well as the Registrar of Member’s interests, to look into this. On Friday, EFF leader Julius Malema, party spokesperson and MP Vuyani Pambo, as well as former chairperson Dali Mpofu, made the trip to Nkandla in KwaZulu-Natal. Julius Malema is in Nkandla to meet with former president Jacob Zuma:  The DA has written to the Speaker of the National Assembly, requesting for a full investigation into exactly how and who paid for an extravagant trip by Mr. Julius Malema and others to the home of ex-President Mr. Jacob Zuma in Nkandla. – @Natasha9Mazzone https://t.co/bqP7jfOYSH — Democratic Alliance (@Our_DA) February 7, 2021  In a media statement, Mazzone, referring to the trip as extravagant, says Modise has the authority to request the acting secretary of Parliament to investigate all travel claims made by any Member of Parliament. If abuse of resources is discovered, the Speaker can report this to the relevant authority. The DA wants Parliament to investigate whether any official travel entitlements were used to fund the trip and to also look into whether VIP protection vehicles were used to transport any of the guests. Mazzone says her party has a duty to ensure that no taxpayers’ money was abused for this trip. “We have a duty to ensure that this tea party in no way, cost the economy of South Africa a single cent, that could have been used to purchase vaccines for the people.” Parties represented in Parliament, receive funding from the IEC, through the Public Funding of Represented Political Parties Act. The Act spells out what the money may be used for. This includes the development of the political will of the people, as well as using the party’s influence, to shape public opinion. Parliament is yet to receive the DA’s request. The EFF did not respond to requests for reaction.