The South Africa Council of Churches (SACC) has warned that former President Jacob Zuma’s decision to refuse to appear before the Commission of Inquiry into State Capture could have serious political implications for the country. The Commission had lodged an urgent application to force Zuma to appear before it and respond to allegations levelled against him by more than 30 witnesses. This after the former President and his legal team walked out of the Inquiry when the Commission’s Chairperson, Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo, refused to recuse himself. The SACC’s Khuthalani Khumalo says Zuma’s decision has the potential to incite violence in the country. Khumalo says they hope Zuma will change his mind for the sake of the country and use the opportunity to appear before the Commission to defend himself against the perception that he’s involved in corruption. The Constitutional Court recently ordered Zuma to appear before the Commission and answer questions. Justice Christopher Jafta delivers the judgment against Zuma:  He has since vowed not to co-operate with the Commission. The former President said in a statement that he will not co-operate with the Commission of Inquiry into State Capture. Zuma also says he does not fear being arrested. He claims the court has been politicised. The former head of State says the Zondo Commission should have been named the ‘Commission of Inquiry into Allegations of State Capture against Zuma’ as he feels he is the target. He alleges that the recent decision of the Constitutional Court also mimics the posture of the Commission in that it has now also created a special and different set of circumstances rendering him completely defenceless against the Commission.  We have a press statement from kwaDakwadunuse.#StateCaptureInquiry #ZondoCommission pic.twitter.com/I1NAZqopr8 — Khaya Sithole (@CoruscaKhaya) February 1, 2021  Zuma also claims that initially he was informed by Chief Justice Mogoeng Mogoeng that the Commission would be chaired by Judge Siraj Desai and was surprised when Zondo was chosen to chair. Zuma has been summoned to appear before the commission later this month. 