Western Cape Transport Minister Bonginkosi Madikizela says the site where four boys died last week after a sand embankment collapsed on them along the N-2 Highway near Nyanga in Cape Town has been closed along with other sites. There have been reports indicating that the sand had been removed by residents living in informal settlements. The boys aged between 11 and 13 years will be buried in the Eastern Cape this weekend. A memorial service was held in Nyanga today. Madikizela says an investigation into the incident is under way and a report will be released later this week. “We have subsequent to that accident closed that site, but we are also closing other sites as well and keeping a very close eye because it’s been brought to my attention that this thing is happening in other areas as well. But over and above that, I’m really calling on the leadership to work with us as government. It cannot be that leaders abdicate their responsibility and expect government to police their own infrastructure when people are vandalising it.” TIMELINE: Children who fell into holes, ditches and mine shafts:  Its first editor was AM van Schoor, formerly of Die Huisgenoot. AM van Schoor ••• In 1949 the SABC Board made a decision to start its news service. 17 July 1950 Commercial station, Springbok Radio, went live. It broadcast English and Afrikaans news bulletins 1951 1952 1959 1960 A news team was deployed to parliament to coordinate the news offering. First regional news service in the Western Cape Regional News With its first current affairs programme, SABC News expands its influence SABC News' first African language bulletin on Radio Bantu TIMELINE: CHILDREN WHO FELL INTO  HOLES, DITCHES OR MINE SHAFTS The body of a 5-year-old boy fell into an Old mine shaft at the Jerusalem informal settlement in Ekhuruleni. 27 February 2017  4 November 2018  An 18 -old baby, who was trapped in a borehole pit at Joppie village outside Tzaneen, Limpopo was found dead. 1985 Flagship breakfast TV show, Goeie Môre Suid-Afrika launched The bodies of four children were found after they fell into a hole at the N2 Borchards Quarry Intersection near Cape Town International Airport. 15 November 2020 An 8-year-old child died in a sewage hole in Griekwastad in the Northern Cape. 9 February 2021 1990 SABC becomes public broadcaster - Complied by Angie Kapelianis - Complied by Angie Kapelianis (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document));  Nyanga residents call on government intervention after 4 children fall into sand hole: 