The Human Rights Commission (HRC) has cautioned the public on misinformation aimed at bringing into question the efficacy and safety of vaccines. In a statement, the HRC urged all South Africans to make their decision based on scientific evidence from identifiable and reputable sources. The first batch of 1 million COVID-19 vaccines developed by AstraZeneca and Oxford University arrived in South Africa on Monday. The vaccines are currently undergoing quality assurance processes before being distributed to various provinces. The HRC welcomed the procurement of the vaccine and appealed to all employers, farm owners, traditional and church leaders to allow and, where necessary, assist those who wish to get vaccinated. It says they must also respect the choices of those who do not want to be vaccinated. The Commission says it would be a violation of human rights to threaten, stigmatise, victimise and discriminate against those who choose not to be vaccinated. Department of Health launches vaccine self-registration system  Medical aid schemes to pay for members COVID-19 vaccinations Health Minister Dr Zweli Mkhize says the government reached an agreement with medical aid schemes in the country to cover the cost of the COVID-19 vaccination for their members. Mkhize launched the Electronic Vaccination Data System on Wednesday which will allow South Africans to register for the COVID-19 vaccine. Currently, the registration process is targeting healthcare workers and Mkhize says the government will pay for vaccinations for South Africans who do not belong to medical aid schemes. Mkhize says, “Everybody who is at risk is going to be vaccinated, they don’t have to pay for it themselves. The Medical Aids will actually cover the cost of the vaccine. If you have dropped out of a medical aid scheme, you will have to indicate that. It means you will fall under the category that the government will sponsor and pay for. You must just give us the correct information. We will have to talk to the medical aid, they know, they have agreed. They will be able to cover it.” Question and Answer session on the launch of the Electronic Vaccination Data System Self Enrolment Portal: Mkhize explains further…  Regardless whether you have medical aid or not, if you are a healthcare worker, you must register on the EVDS to receive your #COVID19 vaccine. Click on the link below and follow the prompts to registerhttps://t.co/cBpEK9D9hJ pic.twitter.com/Vpe6OKtXUe — Dr Zweli Mkhize (@DrZweliMkhize) February 3, 2021  