The ANC Women’s League says it will visit former president Jacob Zuma at his Nkandla Homestead in KwaZulu- Natal, at a date to be announced soon. The league briefed the media at Luthuli house following a meeting of its executive committee on 21 and 22 February. The League says the visit will be aimed at promoting unity within what it describes as the highly factionalised ANC. The League made the announcement about visiting Zuma earlier today:  Zuma has received visits from a number of high-profile leaders including EFF President Julius Malema, Police Minister Bheki Cele and the leadership of the uMkhonto we Sizwe Military Veterans since his refusal to co-operate with the State Capture Commission of Inquiry. Julius Malema visits Zuma in Nkandla:  Police Minister Bheki Cele visits Zuma:  A top priority for the ANCWL will be to lead a campaign to forge unity within the governing party. The League’s Secretary-General Meokgo Matuba says she believes the ANC must close existing gaps between itself and its former leaders. “As part of consolidating the unity of the movement, the ANCWL NEC took the decision to visit former president Zuma on a date to be announced at his Nkandla Homestead. We believe the ANC must close all existing gaps between itself and its former leaders. We will visit president Zuma and continue to visit many other former leaders because they are part of the legacy of our gallant movement.” Inconsistencies in the judiciary The League has cited the State Capture and inconsistencies by the judiciary as issues that are weakening the ANC. Last Monday, the former statesman alleged that some judges were bribed to seal the CR17 documents related to President Cyril Ramaphosa’s 2017 ANC presidential campaign. Zuma has also been critical of Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo, who did not recuse himself from hearing his testimony at the State Capture Commission. The ANCWL’s President Bathabile Dlamini says criticism of the judiciary should not be regarded as disrespect of the law. “We do not want to be seen as people who are mobilising against the judiciary. Generally, the judiciary has to be supported because it is the last defence of human rights justice and dignity. But we must also remember that we are a growing democracy and let’s allow a battle of ideas and deepen our democracy.” Bongani Bongo’s acquittal The league further weighed in on ANC MP and NEC member, Bongani Bongo’s acquittal of corruption charges. Bongo was accused of offering a bribe to an Eskom Inquiry evidence leader in 2017. Dlamini congratulated the court for playing its role in Bongo’s case. “On the issue of comrade Bongo, we want to congratulate the court for playing its role and being above party political issues.” The League also pledged their support for its President over her pension saga, saying no woman deserves to be treated like she has been. Meanwhile, the ANCWL says they will lead a march to Luthuli House soon to demand an end to factionalism within the ANC and they’re calling for party members to unite.