The husband of Lesedi FM current affairs anchor, Dimakatso Ratselane, will remain in custody for further police investigations. Mackenzie Ratselane was arrested on Tuesday in Ennerdale, Gauteng, for attempted murder after he allegedly stabbed his wife multiple times. He also faces additional charges of kidnapping, unlawful possession of a firearm and ammunition. Suspect arrested for alleged attack and stabbing of SABC presenter Dimakatso Ratselane:  The proceedings in court were delayed as Magistrate Marinda Marx turned down the defence’s application to prevent the media from filming the accused. Investigators say they still need to collect statements from five witnesses. Ratselane’s pictures circulated on social media Free State EFF Chairperson, Mandisa Makesini, says they demand action be taken against health officials who circulated Ratselane’s pictures on various social media platforms. “They were supposed to respect the dignity of the patient, especially in the hospital. So, we condemned what happened in our hospital because when I am in hospital, I must be protected, and my dignity regardless of the abuse that I faced, I must be protected all the time. We are talking about what happened in the Department of Health in the Free State and we follow up the issue for Mme Dimakatso. The nurse or whoever took the pictures must be suspended with immediate effect.” Fight against GBV Members of the ANC Women’s League also picketed outside court. The group’s Spokesperson Kabelo Fihla says the organisation will continue to fight for justice for women. “We will continue fighting for justice for women until the government heeds our call as women. We don’t want perpetrators to get light sentences. We want death penalty to be brought back because perpetrators of crime against women go to jail and return educated using taxes.” Calls for harsher punishment against perpetrators of GBV:  The Office of the Deputy Minister in the Presidency for Women, Youth and Persons with disabilities has welcomed the arrest. Spokesperson for Deputy Minister Hlengiwe Mkhize, Amanda Tshemese, says they are grateful that Ratselane’s husband has been arrested. “We are grateful to our law enforcement officers for arresting the perpetrator. We are hopeful that there will be justice for Dimakatso and other many victims in this country. Such behaviour cannot be tolerated. As the department, we urge each South Africans to make every day a day of no violence against women and children.” Ratselane is said to be recovering in hospital after spending a few days in the intensive care unit. The case has been postponed to next week Tuesday. Dimakatso Ratselane alleged assailant appears in Bloemfontein Magistrate’s Court: 