Discussions are heated at the African National Congress’ (ANC) National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting, which kicked off on Saturday morning, as the party’s top leadership grapples with the “step aside” guidelines that have been tabled. At the ANC’s 54th National Conference at Nasrec in 2017, the party resolved that those charged with serious offences should step aside. Thereafter, the party sought a number of legal opinions on the legality of the resolution. The guidelines that are being debated have been drafted by a number of party elders including former deputy president, Kgalema Motlanthe, former treasurer-general Mathews Phosa, and Current treasurer-general Paul Mashatile. Despite the resolution of the ANC’s highest decision-making body, the National Conference in 2017, ANC secretary-general Ace Magashule, has made it clear that he’s going nowhere. Magashule is facing charges of fraud and corruption linked to a 2014 Asbestos project in the Free State. The secretary-general addressing supporters outside the Bloemfontein Magistrate’s Court in November last year. “I will respect the voices of branches if branches say that I must step aside I was elected by branches at the conference I will go back to a special conference and the branches must say to me Comrade Ace Magashule step aside I will then do so.” Ace Magashule addressing supporters outside court:  ‘Step aside’ resolution The ‘step aside’ resolution has been a controversial one and to date has not been implemented by the party leadership. Besides Magashule, those in the firing line should the resolution pass at the NEC in its current form include Home Affairs Parliamentary Committee Chair, Bongani Bongo, and Deputy Finance Minister, David Masondo. The ANC’s Integrity Commission has recommended that all three voluntarily step aside. Some within the party have warned that the so-called “step aside” resolution is being used in factional battles to deal with political opponents, a claim political analyst Levy Ndou does not buy. “Some of these people were there at Nasrec this resolution is not coming in here yesterday it’s not a resolution that is coming because Ace Magashule is the Secretary-General. When Ace Magashule was elected SG the ANC in the same gathering adopted the resolution of stepping aside.” In light of the controversy, the ANC has sought legal counsel on the matter with conflicting views emerging from the legal experts solicited. On the table at this weekend’s NEC is a set of guidelines that have been developed to guide the circumstances in which the resolution should and can be implemented. Ndou believes that outside the technicalities of the guidelines what is also required to finalise them is the political morality of individual members. “Even though it is a matter of the ANC it is a matter that concerns the affected leaders to which extent do these affected leaders understand the resolutions of the ANC and to what extent do they love their own organisation because if you love your organisation you would act in a manner that does not paralyse your organisation because Conference resolution says if you are a child of corruption you don’t call a meeting you don’t go to the integrity commission you step aside.” In grappling with the resolution, the NEC will undoubtedly need to discuss the role of its Integrity Commission which is tasked to look after the moral integrity of the organisation. To date, its recommendations are not binding with the NEC having the final word on whether party members should get the boot. In the video below the step aside guidelines are discussed: 