The Gauteng Department of Health has assured residents of the province that it is hard at work to ensure the smooth rollout of a COVID-19 vaccine once it becomes available. Spokesperson Kwara Kekana has been commenting on the government’s decision to temporarily suspend the rollout of the AstraZeneca vaccine amid concerns about its efficacy. Health Minister Zweli Mkhize confirmed this morning that South Africa will now be using the Johnson & Johnson vaccine in the first phase of its vaccination campaign. Kekana has called on healthcare workers in the province to continue registering to be vaccinated. “The Gauteng Department of Health continues to prepare for the rollout of the vaccine which includes the setting up of approved vaccination sites in the province across the various districts and the training of personnel, which includes various categories of staff across facilities. The rollout will take place once the announcement of the commencement of the rollout is made by the national Department of Health. Health workers who fall under phase one of the vaccines roll out are encouraged to register on the electronic vaccination data system.” Earlier this week the World Health Organisation raised its concern over South Africa’s decision to halt the rollout of AstraZeneca. Head of the WHO Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus called for more research to be done on the efficacy of the vaccine in older age groups that have a higher risk of more severe infection. “This is clearly concerning news however there are some important caveats. Given the limited sample size of the trial and the younger healthier profile of the participants, it is important to determine whether or not the vaccine remains effective in preventing more severe illness. Several countries are succeeding in suppressing transmission including those where new variants are circulating. It also seems increasingly clear that manufacturers will have to adjust to the evolution of the virus taking into account the latest variant for future shots including boosters.” WHO update on COVID-19 vaccine rollout and Ebola: 