It is important that the international community does not lend legitimacy or recognition to the military regime in Myanmar. That was the message delivered by the United Nations Secretary General’s Special Envoy on Myanmar during an informal meeting in the General Assembly in which that country’s legitimate Ambassador made an impassioned plea for international assistance to restore the elected government. With a warning that the military coup in early February risked pushing Myanmar back towards isolation from the international community. A country in turmoil since the army seized power earlier this month. Detaining the elected leadership including Nobel Peace Laureate Aung San Suu Kyi – after her party won last November’s parliamentary election in a landslide. Christine Burgener is the Secretary General’s Special Envoy on Myanmar, “Instead of resorting to established legal mechanisms, the military exploited differences to try to justify an attempted coup. I say “attempted,” since the takeover has not stabilized, it would appear to be roundly rejected by the people. It is important the international community does not lend legitimacy or recognition to this regime.  I also say “Coup,” because the military takeover and declaration of the state of emergency was a clear violation of the constitution regardless of what they claim.” Burgener warned that the international community could no longer take a business as usual approach to Myanmar’s military as it continued with ongoing violations, including the killing of peaceful protestors, illegal detentions and clamping down on freedom of expression, including targeting journalists – calling the rising death toll unacceptable. While the special envoy’s efforts to visit the country have so far been blocked by the country’s military. “If the regime is not giving access or accepting UN visits needed for these purposes, influential Member States could play an important role and support efforts to undertake objective assessments. Member States gathered today have a collective responsibility towards the people of Myanmar and safeguard their democratic aspirations. I reiterate the Secretary-General’s call for Member States to exercise influence regarding the protection of the human rights and fundamental freedoms of the people of Myanmar,” adds Burgener. An emotional Myanmar Ambassador Kyaw Moe Tun  – who continues to represent the elected civilian government led by the National League for Democracy – appealed for international solidarity. “The military can no longer uphold the rule of law and protect the people and the country. Myanmar’s military has become an existential threat for Myanmar as a polity and civilized society. Now is not the time for the international community to tolerate the war crimes and crimes against humanity committed by Myanmar’s military. The international community must ensure that the coup has no place in the modern world – as bound by the UN Secretary General.” South Africa – one of just two African countries to join the debate called for the rule of law to be respected and for the release of detainees. Ambassador Xolisa Mabhongo, “We believe that the developments in Myanmar undermine the democratic reforms following the general election held on 8th November 2020. SA, therefore, calls on the military in Myanmar to respect the rule of law. We firmly believe that any political differences should be resolved through an inclusive and peaceful dialogue. ” Several countries and regional blocs including the EU, the UK and the United States have either threatened or imposed targeted financial sanctions against the military leadership – as several countries condemned the coup. Washington’s newly installed Ambassador Linda Thomas-Greenfield, “It is time for the military to immediately relinquish power, refrain from further violence, release all those unjustly detained and restore Myanmar’s democratically elected government. And it is time to provide unhindered humanitarian access so that life-saving humanitarian assistance reaches all the people in need.” Regional powerhouse China said it was engaging parties to de-escalate tensions but referred to the situation in Myanmar as an internal matter. Ambassador Zhang Jun, “What happened in Myanmar is, in essence, Myanmar’s internal affairs. The international community should on the premise of respecting Myanmar’s sovereignty, political independence, territorial integrity and national unity, help relevant parties in Myanmar to conduct dialogue and reconciliation in accordance with the wishes and interest of its people.” The General Assembly President earlier said it was not too late for the military to reverse the negative trajectory on the ground.  