eNCA political reporter, Lindsay Dentlinger, is getting a lot of flak over her perceived racism on social media. This after video footage of her interviews with Freedom Front Plus leader Pieter Groenewald and the DA’s John Steenhuisen without their masks on emerged on social media, while she requested several Black political leaders, including UDM Chief Whip Nqabayomzi Kwankwa, to keep theirs on while speaking to her, “in respect of COVID-19 protocols”. So eNCA has been doing this for a while now!!! #eNCA #eNCAMUSTFALL #eNCAtrash pic.twitter.com/I9b2aeIPx4 — #BlackExcellence™ (@Sakhi_Afrika) February 25, 2021  Amid the uproar on social media – Kwankwa has also hit back at the reporter. He has told the National Assembly that he does not want a “patronising apology” from eNCA over the perceived biased treatment from the media house’s reporter. (JUST IN) UDM Chief Whip Nqabayomzi Kwankwa tells the National Assembly he does not want a “patronising apology” from #eNCA over the alleged racist profiling of black MPs by being forced to wear mask while white MPs are not wearing a mask. #sabcnews — Bulelani Phillip (@BulelaniPhillip) February 25, 2021  The ANC in Gauteng has also weighed in, saying it is deeply disturbed by the undertones displayed by Dentlinger’s unwarranted behaviour. “In a series of videos that are in circulation across social media platforms, she can be seen
interviewing the parliamentarians from Democratic Alliance, Inkatha Freedom Party, Freedom Front Plus, United Democratic Movement and the African National Congress. In those interviews, she deliberately ignores the fact that both DA and FF Plus leaders are not wearing masks and both
leaders of IFP and UDM are reminded to wear theirs before they can respond to questions posed to
them by her. It is against this background that the ANC Gauteng Province is calling for the eNCA to clarify South Africans if racial identity determines who is compelled to wear a mask as demonstrated by Ms. Lindsay Dentlinger when conducting interviews. We will be monitoring this developments closely to ensure that eNCA holds to the very basic principles that holds this country together since 1994 new dispensation,” says the governing party’s Gauteng wing. Social media users believe that the reporter and the media house are racist. eNCA is yet to comment on the matter. The issue is no longer about whether #eNCA is racist or not, but why is Multi Choice allowing their racism Why not remove them from DSTV channels like they removed ANN7? — Tumelo Warona (@DjNewAfrica) February 25, 2021  When EFF said ENCA is no longer welcomed at EFF events, I remember clever blacks crying Media Freedom. So now ENCA is giving you Media Freedom guys #eNCA pic.twitter.com/2qGzU6Yxz9 — Battalion 54 (@54Battalion) February 25, 2021  ||after eNCA withdrawal from covering The EFF conference|| “We don’t want to see any eNCA anywhere at any of our events” – Julius Malema#eNCA pic.twitter.com/oTL7kXFGfP — m a s h e s h a  (@dollar_mashesha) February 25, 2021     