The family of former President Jacob Zuma says there is no amount of persuasion that will change his view of Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo. They say the African National Congress (ANC) national leadership is welcome to meet with Zuma but that he won’t testify before the State Capture Commission if  Zondo does not recuse himself. The ANC leadership in KwaZulu-Natal indicated last week that they will ask the party’s top national leadership to meet with Zuma. His son Edward Zuma explains: “If the leadership of the ANC wants to engage with former president Jacob Zuma they are free to do that I mean president Zuma is their member, is the member of the African National Congress. Whatever the leadership request, you will be able to listen to them. However, what we want to emphasize, if ever they are trying or their attempt is to convince him to change the decision that he has taken, well I might as well say no, it’s not going to happen. We sticking to what we’ve said whether you tried to convince him or not convincing. He’s not going to change and when maintaining the position, we support him.” Former president Jacob Zuma has lodged an application asking for the recusal of Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo as the chair of the Commission. Zuma believes that there is a level of bias against him and a lack of impartiality. The former president also made it clear that he does not believe the concept of State Capture exists, and that it is a political and not an investigative project. Zuma’s lawyer’s letter to the commission states that Zuma is “of the firm view” that Zondo’s alleged bias against him stems from “personal matters and strained relations that the chairperson ought to have disclosed right at the beginning of the inquiry”. MKMVA support Zuma The State Capture Commission Chair, Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo said there was “no valid or sound reason” for Zuma’s no-show on Monday. The Commission will now approach the Constitutional Court and ask it to impose a term of imprisonment on Zuma if it finds him guilty of contempt of court. Meanwhile, Mkhonto we Sizwe Military Veteran’s Association (MKMVA) says it is ready to defend Zuma from arrest. MKMVA president Kebby Maphatsoe says their members will not allow the arrest of Zuma to be effected. “So they went there yesterday to form a wall that come today if there is going to be an arrest it won’t be easy. We are not going to carry former President Jacob Zuma on our shoulders and take him to prison that will never happen.” MKMVA members continue to camp outside former president Jacob Zuma’s Nkandla home. SABC News reporter, Ayanda Mhlongo gives an update:  Zikalala weighs-in on Zuma and State Capture matter KwaZulu-Natal Premier Sihle Zikalala says the African National Congress (ANC) Provincial Executive Committee (PEC) remains guided by the decision of the party’s National Executive Committee (NEC) that all members must respect the State Capture Commission and the courts. Zikalala says he believes that former President Jacob Zuma’s refusal to appear before the Commission lies with its current chair. He was speaking on the sidelines of a provincial Lekgotla. Zikalala says that he trusts that Zuma’s legal team will explore the proper legal platforms to take up the issues with the Commission’s Chair, Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo. “In the province, we have taken a view that when the former president goes to court, members of the ANC will be allowed to go to court. We are guided by the NEC decision that says all members of the organisation must respect the commission and must also respect the Concourt. The former president himself in his statement made it clear that he has no problem with the commission or judiciary and his problem is with his application for the chairperson of the commission.”