The uMkhonto Wesizwe Military Veterans Association (MKMVA) says it will stop any attempts to arrest former President Jacob Zuma – after he expressed his refusal to appear before the Commission of Inquiry into State Capture. Zuma’s decision came despite a Constitutional Court ruling ordering him to appear before the Commission. The African National Congress’s former ex-combatants – led by its national executive committee – have visited Zuma at his Nkandla homestead this week. MKMVA spokesperson, Carl Niehaus, says they have now decided to deploy MKMVA members to Zuma’s home. “MKMVA will do everything within our members to prevent his arrest and to protect him from such humiliation. There will be from henceforth a presence of uMkhontowesizwe Military Veterans members at Nkandla. When we met President Zuma yesterday (Friday), there was a tune of MKMVA members there in full combat uniform. We will continue to have members of MKMVA in full combat uniform present at his residence for as long as we think it is necessary.” Zuma defies court order, won’t appear at State Capture Inquiry:  The NEC of #MKMVA just concluded a productive meeting of over seven hours long with @PresJGZuma at Nkandla. #PresidentZuma reiterated that he will NOT go to the #ZondoCommission, & MKMVA pledged our full support for this decision. We wholeheartedly agree with Msholozi’s reasons. pic.twitter.com/y9R9kAqDaY — Carl Niehaus (@niehaus_carl) February 11, 2021  Radebe’s funeral Meanwhile, Zuma is among the mourners attending the funeral service of the former speaker of the KZN provincial legislature, Meshack Radebe. Radebe, alongside the late IFP leader Sipho Mlaba, played a crucial role in bringing peace between rival ANC and IFP supporters in Hammarsdale area, outside Pietermaritzburg. The funeral service is held at his eMaqongqo home, outside Pietermaritzburg. Health Minister Dr. Zweli Mkhize, ANC KZN Deputy provincial Chair Mike Mabuyakhulu and some IFP leaders are also in attendance. Funeral of struggle stalwart Meshack Radebe: 