Business Unity South Africa (Busa) has urged former President Jacob Zuma to appear before the Commission of Inquiry into State Capture, saying he is not above the law. This comes after Zuma announced that he will not obey a summons to appear before the Commission from February 15 – 19. The Secretary of the Commission has been instructed to lay a criminal complaint against Zuma for not appearing last month. The Zondo Commission says it will announce further actions against Zuma should he fail to appear in February. Busa’s president Sipho Pityana says it is clear that there are questions that he is required to respond to over allegations of State capture. “As Busa, we welcome the steps taken by the Commission to lay criminal charges in respect of former President Zuma’s failure to attend the Commission sitting in January. We also welcome him receiving summons for his attendance in February.” “Clearly he has questions to answer and he is not above the law and he must comply with the law. He knew what the Commission is about and everybody who is implicated in State Capture would have to appear before the Commission. He signed the law establishing the Commission and he appointed Judge Zondo as the chair of the Commission,” explains Pityana. The audio clip below is the full interview with Pityana:  Commission reacts to Zuma’s letter Meanwhile, on Tuesday, the Commission released a statement responding to the former President’s letter. In the statement, the Commission says it is concerned that Zuma’s decision to defy the order of the
Constitutional Court and the summons of the Commission, displays a complete disregard for the rights and interests that South Africans have in obtaining comprehensive responses from the former President. The Commission says should Zuma carry out his decision not to appear before the Commission, it will announce on that day what further action it will take in regard to such conduct. Below is a statement from the Commission:  Constitutional Court ruling on Zuma, Zondo matter Last week, the court ruled that Zuma is compelled to appear before the Commission and will not be allowed to exercise his right to keep silent. In the video below, Justice Christopher Jafta delivers the judgment against Zuma:  He claims the court has been politicised. In November 2020, Zuma walked out of the Commission without the Chairperson’s permission, after failing in his bid to have Deputy Justice Raymond Zondo recusing himself as the Commission’s presiding officer. In a statement, Zuma also says he does not fear being arrested.  We have a press statement from kwaDakwadunuse.#StateCaptureInquiry #ZondoCommission pic.twitter.com/I1NAZqopr8 — Khaya Sithole (@CoruscaKhaya) February 1, 2021 