The  National Education, Health and Allied Workers’ Union (Nehawu) in the Eastern Cape has welcomed the decision by Premier Oscar Mabuyane to fire Health MEC Sindiswa Gomba. Mabuyane announced during a media briefing that Gomba was relieved of her duties. Gomba is facing fraud charges related to the funeral arrangements for former President Nelson Mandela. CoGTA MEC Xolile Nqaba will act as MEC for Health. Nehawu recently called for Gomba to be removed. “It has always been our call that the Department of Health in the province needs a dedicated leader with requisite skills, the necessary capacity, experience and financial acumen to deal with the budgetary constraints. We are hopeful that the appointment of MEC Nqatha will be of great assistance as the department is currently facing challenges of community healthcare workers and COVID-19 contract workers,” says the union’s Provincial Secretary, Miki Jaceni. The former superintendent general of the health department, Dr. Thobile Mbengashe, will also be subjected to disciplinary action in line with the findings of the Special Investigating Unit related to the procurement of the ambulance motorbikes last year. Mabuyane says he will have an opportunity to present his case. The premier has been under pressure to fire Gomba since early last year. Premier Oscar Mabuyane announces the sacking of Health MEC Sindiswa Gomba:  The reinstatement of her fraud and corruption charges and the SIU report linking her to wrongdoing sealed her fate. This is as the sixth provincial administration lives to its commitment of not tolerating impunity. Mabuyane has thanked Gomba for her work saying the decision is in the best interest of the provincial government. “In light of the charges she’s facing after the NPA re-enrolled the charges, I have taken a decision to relieve her of her duties as the member of the executive council for the Department of Health. The decision to relieve Miss Gomba of her duties as a member of the council will allow her time and space to attend to the case against her. This decision is in the best interest of the MEC and the provincial government.” The Makhanda-based government watchdog, the Public Service Accountability Monitor (PSAM), has also welcomed the decision to relieve Gomba from her duties. PSAM Director Jay Kruse says the decision was overdue. “We now look forward to the appointment of a MEC that can focus his or her attention on the vaccine rollout and improving the delivery of services to the people of the province.” Political analyst Dr. Nkosikhulule Nyembezi has applauded the move. “It is a welcome move; a demonstration of political will to deal with corruption because all South Africans should know that the possibility of detection, apprehension and conviction is what should keep them away from acts of corruption. We hope this is not the last that we see and that all South Africans will support the bold move as we try to rid out corruption in the system.” Various political parties have welcomed the move. Meanwhile, the ANC in the province has also written to leaders implicated in the Nelson Mandela funeral scandal to step aside. This includes Dr. W.B Rubusana Chairperson, Phumlani Mkolo.