Beneficiaries of a low-cost housing project in Morning Star, near Durbanville in Cape Town, have started moving into their new homes, though the project remains mired in controversy. The project stalled for more than two years due to a legal challenge involving opposing members of the neighbouring community. Today the same group demonstrated outside the development against the allocation of the units. The development got off to a slow start. Today 12 recipients were handed the keys to the properties. The housing backlog in the province stands at more than 300 000, annually 2 000 units are being built in the province. The handover of these houses is expected to be completed by the end of next month. Mayco Member for Human Settlements Malusi Booi says the City of Cape Town invested more than R34 million in this project. “As the City of Cape Town, we have invested more than R34 million in this project. It will yield 166 units of which we have started handing over. We’re hoping by the end of next week we would have handed over more than 100 of these units. We’re doing it with speed because we understand that people are in need.” Councillor @MalusiBooi, and other dignitaries, celebrated with the latest beneficiaries of the City’s R34,2 million Morningstar housing project in Durbanville today. A total of 12 beneficiaries received the keys to their new homes. Read more: https://t.co/tYB0vBNdQh#CTNews pic.twitter.com/xvr7ni7kQv — City of Cape Town (@CityofCT) February 10, 2021  For the beneficiaries, it’s been a long wait. “Today I feel thankful for god to have a home at the moment because of circumstances, everyone knew how I lived. But I’m very excited.” “It was very difficult, we waited very long. We lived with my in-laws at the back in a Wendy house. We were ok but didn’t have privacy. That’s why we’re happy. We can go into our own house.” The development stood vacant for years amid the ongoing legal battle by community members opposing the allocation process.  They claim certain people are being given preference to reside in two-bedroom houses. Community Leader, Zane Williams says, “People have been waiting in morning star for over three decades to have a house over their heads. We have issues here where people gave fictitious addresses because a high court order stipulates very clearly that 70% needs to be allocated to people from morning star.” The City is currently proceeding with contempt of court application against the community members for defying an order that they do not disrupt the development.