The bodies of four children have been found after they fell  into a hole at the N2 Borchards Quarry Intersection near Cape Town International Airport. Details surrounding the tragedy are unclear at the stage. Fire and Rescue Spokesperson in the City of Cape Town Jermaine Carelse says crews were dispatched on Monday afternoon. First to be found were the bodies of two boys at around six on Monday evening. Rescue efforts continued and a third body of a child was found after 9PM on Monday night. Carelse says emergency services were on scene throughout the night and fourth body of a little boy was found in the early hours of Tuesday morning. Fire and Rescue, Emergency Services and the K9 unit wrapped up operations and left the scene after 4AM ON Tuesday morning. TIMELINE: Children who fell into holes, ditches and mine shafts: Its first editor was AM van Schoor, formerly of Die Huisgenoot. AM van Schoor ••• In 1949 the SABC Board made a decision to start its news service. 17 July 1950 Commercial station, Springbok Radio, went live. It broadcast English and Afrikaans news bulletins 1951 1952 1959 1960 A news team was deployed to parliament to coordinate the news offering. First regional news service in the Western Cape Regional News With its first current affairs programme, SABC News expands its influence SABC News' first African language bulletin on Radio Bantu TIMELINE: CHILDREN WHO FELL INTO  HOLES, DITCHES OR MINE SHAFTS The body of a 5-year-old boy fell into an Old mine shaft at the Jerusalem informal settlement in Ekhuruleni. 27 February 2017  4 November 2018  An 18 -old baby, who was trapped in a borehole pit at Joppie village outside Tzaneen, Limpopo was found dead. 1985 Flagship breakfast TV show, Goeie Môre Suid-Afrika launched The bodies of four children were found after they fell into a hole at the N2 Borchards Quarry Intersection near Cape Town International Airport. 15 November 2020 An 8-year-old child died in a sewage hole in Griekwastad in the Northern Cape. 9 February 2021 1990 SABC becomes public broadcaster - Complied by Angie Kapelianis - Complied by Angie Kapelianis (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document));