Constant technical glitches experienced by communities in the Free State following the switch from analogue to digital remain a concern to the Department of Communications. Many residents have complained about poor signal from the newly-installed decoders. Minister of Telecommunications & Postal Services Stella Ndabeni-Abrahams visited Majwemasweu in Brandfort in the Free State to review the implementation process on the broadcasting digital migration. Some residents in the Free State are not happy with the new digital migration. They have even stopped using the new system and resorted to satellite dishes instead. Seventy-two-year-old Nomayeza Seshoba from Majwemasweu in Brandfort is one of the residents who has experienced challenges with digital migration. Seshoba says digital migration is failing many residents. “Sometimes I can see visuals on my television, sometimes I cannot. I can hear people talking but I cannot see who is talking. I don’t know where to get assistance because even the technicians who installed it, they are nowhere to be found. I don’t know what to do. I decided to leave it as it is because I do not know how to fix it.” The challenges are not new:  Other residents have mixed reactions. “The problem is buttons on the decoder. They are faulty and we don’t know where to go when we encounter challenges. Let them fix the buttons because when the batteries are dead it’s a problem.” Ndabeni-Abrahams says providers who fail to deliver quality services to the people must be held accountable. “We must hold all that we have paid accountable to say why must they steal the money from the state and deprive our people access to communication and information. They must make sure that is addressed with immediate effect. You are also aware that we are in the process of licensing the spectrum. The more delays we encounter through this digital migration process, we are delaying the nation which is why we are appealing to service providers who have been given the opportunity to deliver these services to do so diligently and of course, we are going to penalise where the need arises.” Free State is the first province to switch from analogue to digital migration. Minister Stella Ndabeni-Abrahams discusses government’s focus on digital migration:  The Minister on SABC retrenchments Ndabeni- Abrahams says SABC management must follow proper processes in implementing section 189. “We are cognisant of the challenges the SABC is facing. We are (aware) that some heads have to roll, but, of course, all we are saying (is that) processes have to be followed so that we don’t (do) injustice to others. Everybody has to be treated equally and given an opportunity, but when the needs arise action has to be taken.” 