President Cyril Ramaphosa says processes have been put in place to ensure the Gender-Based Violence and Femicide Response Fund will be managed in an ethical and transparent manner. Ramaphosa addressed the launch of the private sector-led fund earlier which is aimed at supporting the implementation of the National Strategic Plan (NSP) and the wider GBV response in the country. Ramaphosa says the launch of the fund fulfills the promise made to women and children during a summit held on the issue in 2018, to end the scourge of violence and killing of women and girls in our country. “The fund will be managed and administered under the strictest principles of good governance, due diligence transparency, and accountability. I would like to acknowledge the contribution of Anglo American of R30 million from Absa of R20 million and the contribution by the Ford Foundation of R20 million.  I also want to thank those companies that have offered their services on a free basis to assist with the financial and audit aspects as well as legal.” President Cyril Ramaphosa launches GBVF Response Fund:  Ramaphosa says while COVID-19 has impacted the government’s GBVF programmes, some progress has been made. “We have allocated nearly R21 billion over the three years of the medium-term expenditure framework to support all the pillars of the national strategic plan. I also receive the report detailing the expenditure associated with GBV related programmes in every government department.” Women empowerment He says South Africa has adopted a policy of 40 % preferential public procurement for women-owned businesses. According to Ramaphosa, government is now lobbying for 30% in the African region. “We also lobbied for the gender-responsive trade policy thrust to be developed as part of the African Continental Free Trade Area. As a country, South Africa has adopted a policy of 40% preferential public procurement for women-owned enterprise and we are promoting a minimum target of 30% for the region.”