Political analyst Dale McKinley says there is a strong possibility that former President Jacob Zuma will appear before the Commission of Inquiry into State Capture on Monday morning. The Commission summoned Zuma to testify before it for the duration of the coming week, but he indicated that he will not comply. Last week saw various attempts to persuade Zuma to change his mind including from the African National Congress’s (ANC) National Executive Committee (NEC) which held its meeting over the weekend. However, the uMkhonto weSizwe Military Veteran’s Association (MKMVA) which visited him at his home in eNkandla in KwaZulu-Natal says the former President will not budge. McKinley says Zuma’s failure to show up would have serious political and constitutional implications. He says, “Given the tea party that he had with Julius [EFF leader Julius Malema] and others, I would probably say he’s going to show up. What he’s going to do with the commission, I’m not sure. My sense is that if he doesn’t show up, as many others have said, it will constitute both a political and constitutional crisis and I’m not sure that ex-President Zuma is ready to take that on at the moment or his forces are ready to take that on at the moment.” Zuma’s decision not to appear before the Zondo Commission under scrutiny:  The NEC of #MKMVA just concluded a productive meeting of over seven hours long with @PresJGZuma at Nkandla. #PresidentZuma reiterated that he will NOT go to the #ZondoCommission, & MKMVA pledged our full support for this decision. We wholeheartedly agree with Msholozi’s reasons. pic.twitter.com/y9R9kAqDaY — Carl Niehaus (@niehaus_carl) February 11, 2021  Give Zuma space to think about appearing before State Capture Commission: Ramaphosa Earlier, President Cyril Ramaphosa said the former President Jacob Zuma needs to be given time and space to make a proper decision about appearing before the State Capture Commission. Ramaphosa said, “This is a matter that I’m sure he’s going to give much thought to because he’s being counselled by a number of people and a number of organisations, that the constitutional structure that he contributed so much to needs to be given consideration and I’m sure at his own time, in his own mind, he will think about all these and I would like to say, let’s give former President Jacob Zuma time and space to think about this,” he said. ANC Secretary-General Ace Magashule also said Zuma has done nothing wrong and should be left alone. He also slammed calls for Zuma to be disciplined and removed from the ANC. “Leave comrade Zuma alone, just leave him. Why should we suspend a person who believes in what he believes in? Why should I call him to order? What has he done?” D-Day for former President Zuma to appear before Zondo Commission:  