The Council for Quality Assurance in General and Further Education and Training (Umalusi) has given the 2020 National matric exams the green light. This is despite the leakages of mathematics and physical sciences paper two. The Basic Education Department (DBE) announced on Sunday that the two leaks did not compromise the quality of the exams. Over one million candidates sat for the exams due to the postponement of June examinations as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. Despite Umalusi expressing disappointment on the leakages, chairperson professor John Volmik says the regulatory body is satisfied with the results of the exams. Volmik says, “Over and above, in addition, Umalusi noted a concern, the serious irregularities regarding the leakage of mathematics paper two and physical sciences paper. However, the executive committee is satisfied that based on the available evidence, there were no systematic irregularities which might have compromised the overall credibility and integrity of the November 2020 National Senior Certificate.” Irregularities Umalusi says it has instructed the Basic Education Department to withhold the results of matric candidates implicated in irregularities. This includes candidates implicated in the leakage of paper two papers of mathematics and physical sciences. An investigation into the leaks is continuing. Volmik says, “The DBE is required to block the results of candidates implicated in irregularities, general irregularities including candidates involved in group copying pending the outcome of further DBE investigations and Umalusi verifications, and tighten security at all levels to secure that there are no leaks of question papers.” Below is the Umalusi media briefing on 2020 Matric results approval: Court In December, the High Court in Pretoria set aside the decision of Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga to rewrite the two leaked matric exam papers. The South African Democratic Teacher’s Union, lobby group AfriForum and independent learners had brought the urgent court application before the court.