The joint sitting of the National Assembly on Wednesday held the second day of the debate on the State of the Nation Address. Opposition political parties did not mince their words in criticising President Cyril Ramaphosa’s administration, while the ruling party reiterated its stance in defending and strengthening law enforcement agencies as well as cracking the whip on corruption. Since Tuesday, President Ramaphosa has been listening to political parties debating his SONA. Ministers used the debate to address some of the issues that have been in the public domain. Justice and Correctional Services Minister Ronald Lamola opened the debate and defended the judiciary. “There must not be spurious allegations against the judiciary. There is nothing wrong with giving a fair criticism against judgments and against decisions of the judiciary but it must be informed by facts and not conspiracies.” Minister Ronald Lamola speaks against what he refers to as attacks on the judiciary:  Military veterans urged to unite the country Meanwhile, Minister of Defence and Military Veterans Nosiviwe Mapisa- Nqakula warned military veterans to be cautious and not be used to sow divisions. She says military veterans must work alongside the Defence Force to make sure that there is peace and stability in the country. “Military veterans should never find themselves in situations where they are used to sow divisions or counter-revolutionary. Military veterans are an investment in a country. Military veterans should strive all the time to ensure that there is peace and stability in a country alongside members of the Defence Force.” Issues opposition parties feel SONA failed to address Pan Africanist Congress of Azania leader Mzwanele Nyhontso believes that the President’s address last week did not address the bread and butter issues. “It continues to fail the dispossessed, most exploited, the dehumanized, the African indigenous majority. The SONA failed dismally to address the fundamental interest of the African majority. Land remains one item of conflict in Azania and it must be repossessed and restored to its rightful owners.” National Freedom Party MP Shaik Emam gave reasons why he believes that Ramaphosa will never win the fight against corruption. “Let me say to you Mr. President, why you cannot deal with corruption in SA. Corruption is deep-rooted. You cannot say to a member of your party, ‘do not steal for yourself but steal for the party.’  All political parties wherever they govern rely on tenders.” Day 2 of the SONA debate:  The President will reply to the debate on Thursday.