The Sekhukhune district municipality in Limpopo says disciplinary actions are under way against four senior officials implicated in fraud and corruption. The officials, including acting municipal manager, Moho Mofokeng allegedly fraudulently awarded a 26 million rand contract for the drilling of boreholes. The Special Investigating Unit has also recommended that the matter be referred to the National Prosecuting Authority for possible prosecution. The NPA is awaiting a decision from the National Director of Public Prosecutions. The district municipality’s spokesperson, Moloko Moloto says the officials are on suspension. “After the municipality invalidated the said appointments through a court order, it immediately placed the implicated officials on precautionary suspension and their disciplinary hearings are continuing. The municipality welcomes the involvement of the criminal justice system in this matter and is cooperating with the law enforcement agencies.” The alleged contravention was discovered by the former deputy director for Infrastructure and Water Services, Donald Rankwe. The acting Municipal Manager, Mpho Mofokeng, senior managers Fhatuwani Phaswana, Foster Masemola and Titus Maroga, allegedly initiated and approved a multi-million-rand water project. Former chief financial officer Donald Rankwe allegedly signed but did not approve the contract as tender processes were not followed. Rankwe has since resigned and left the municipality for other opportunities. Moloto says Rankwe has been cleared of any wrongdoing, and the disciplinary process against the other four officials is unfolding. The leader of the Bolsheviks party at the municipal council, Seun Mogotji wants action taken against any official found guilty of fraud and corruption. “We are still waiting on the action of the Executive Mayor on the disciplinary matters and also on the criminal charges that were laid at SAPS. And we hope from the Hawks side, the latest that we have is that those matters were referred to NPA for decision. We are still waiting for the outcomes of that so that we can lay this matter to rest because we cannot afford, while the officials are at home being paid for not doing anything if they are guilty they should be charged and dismissed.” In a report released by the Special Investigating Unit, it has recommended that disciplinary actions be taken against the officials for alleged misconduct. The report further recommends that the matter be referred to the National Prosecuting Authority for the prosecution of criminal offence. NPA spokesperson Mashudu Malabi-Ndzhangi says they are awaiting a decision. In the past few years, the Sekhukhune district municipality has lost millions of rand after officials allegedly mistakenly paid unknown companies that did not perform any services.