The Department of Basic Education is inviting comments on the proposed amendments to the 1998 School Admissions Policy. The amendments seek to prevent the exclusion of learners from school based on language policy, non-payment of fees, and defying the school’s code of conduct. If adopted, the amendments will make it almost impossible for principals to refuse admission for learners even based on feeder zones. Education stakeholders are yet to make their inputs. The Department of Basic Education is tightening screws around a number of issues that have created a crisis in the education system in the last few years. In terms of the proposed amendments, the department wants to ensure that no learner can be denied admission to a school-based on language. Former Model C schools have been accused of charging high tuition fees and using Afrikaans as a medium of instruction to exclude learners. Basic Education Spokesperson, Elijah Mhlanga, says it is about time the old admissions policy is updated. “The Department of Basic Education has published for comment the revised draft policy on admissions in schools. This is an important piece of legislation because it talks about the requirements for admissions into school for learners, the documents required as well as the responsibilities of parents that they need to take into account when bringing the children to schools.” The policy mainly spells out that principals cannot refuse admission based on anything except immunisation. It also says that learners cannot be excluded from any school activities or accessing their reports or certificates based on non-payment of school fees, or for contravening the school’s code of conduct. There have been instances where learners were suspended because of their hairstyles. The policy also seems to address the tendency of schools to make parents sign immunity contracts – particularly for school trips. This was the case with Parktown High School in Johannesburg, where learner Enock Mpianzi died during an excursion. Enock Mpianzi lost his life during a school excursion:  Mhlanga says some of the issues stem from court cases. “It is important that South Africans give us input on this particular policy as it comes from the background of a court case two years ago where the court found that parts of the admissions policy were unconstitutional. So, we have had to revise it but members of the public are required to take part to inform the final version of this policy.” The court case Mhlanga is referring to had to do with how children of undocumented migrants were excluded from schools. The court found that even undocumented children had the right to education. The amendments forbid principals from refusing admission to these children based on the lack of birth certificates. It says that principals must help parents to obtain the document if the parents are struggling. The amendments seem to suggest that feeder zones will not be cast in stone. The document only allows principals to refuse admission if the school is full or if parents fail to produce proof of immunisation against communicable diseases.