The City of Cape Town says counselling has been offered to the members of the families of the four boys who died when a sandbank collapsed on the N2 Borcherds Quarry in Nyanga on the Cape Flats on Monday afternoon. The children, aged between eight and 13 years, dug a hole in the sand on an embankment and it collapsed on them. They died of suffocation. It has also emerged that some residents have been digging next to the highway for sand to use to build their houses. Community leaders have appealed for more recreational facilities for children in the area. Western Cape Social Development Minister Sharna Fernandez says officials are assisting the bereaved families. “I would like to take the opportunity to thank everyone who has been working on the scene, actively involved in the search, the chaplains and all stakeholders who are assisting the community at this difficult time. DSD (Department of Social Development) will provide a team to ensure we support all the families during this difficult time.” In the video below, one of the families speaks about the tragedy: TIMELINE: Children who fell into holes, ditches and mine shafts: Its first editor was AM van Schoor, formerly of Die Huisgenoot. AM van Schoor ••• In 1949 the SABC Board made a decision to start its news service. 17 July 1950 Commercial station, Springbok Radio, went live. It broadcast English and Afrikaans news bulletins 1951 1952 1959 1960 A news team was deployed to parliament to coordinate the news offering. First regional news service in the Western Cape Regional News With its first current affairs programme, SABC News expands its influence SABC News' first African language bulletin on Radio Bantu TIMELINE: CHILDREN WHO FELL INTO  HOLES, DITCHES OR MINE SHAFTS The body of a 5-year-old boy fell into an Old mine shaft at the Jerusalem informal settlement in Ekhuruleni. 27 February 2017  4 November 2018  An 18 -old baby, who was trapped in a borehole pit at Joppie village outside Tzaneen, Limpopo was found dead. 1985 Flagship breakfast TV show, Goeie Môre Suid-Afrika launched The bodies of four children were found after they fell into a hole at the N2 Borchards Quarry Intersection near Cape Town International Airport. 15 November 2020 An 8-year-old child died in a sewage hole in Griekwastad in the Northern Cape. 9 February 2021 1990 SABC becomes public broadcaster - Complied by Angie Kapelianis - Complied by Angie Kapelianis (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document));