The Chairperson of the State Capture Commission Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo says he’ll give a way forward, later on Monday afternoon, on what will happen next, following the non-appearance of former President Jacob Zuma at the Commission on Monday morning. Zuma furnished the Commission with a letter through his lawyers, alerting it that he will not appear this week, as per the summons issued for his appearance. Live Stream: State Capture  In the letter, Zuma says a court is yet to determine his application to have the commission’s chairperson Deputy Chief Justice Zondo recused. He also mentions that the summons issued for his appearance was not in line with the court’s order earlier this year. Zondo says the country’s law is of vital importance and will need to be applied appropriately on the matter. “We are very clear of what needs to happen; there is no confusion about what needs to be done. Our law is not deficient in this respect at all. But it might be appropriate to adjourn and then come back at 2pm, and then I’ll make my remarks on what some of the matters that have been raised and then announce what next the commission will do.” The Commission outlined what it would have put to Zuma had he appeared before it. Earlier, the commission’s lead prosecutor Advocate Paul Pretorius said the reasons that Zuma had given for not appearing were invalid. The Commission has confirmed receiving a letter from Zuma through his lawyers, despite a Constitutional Court judgment, ordering him to appear. Former President Jacob Zuma says he will not appear at the Zondo Commission:  Below is the letter from Jacob Zuma’s lawyers:    MKMVA members outside Nkandla to ‘protect Zuma’ Meanwhile, ex-combatants of the ANC’s former military wing Umkhonto we Sizwe are camping outside Zuma’s residence in Nkandla, KwaZulu-Natal.Zuma’s son, Edward Zuma, said his father at home and they as children are not going to allow their father to attend the Commission. Members of the MKMVA say they are going to be in Nkandla for the duration of the week to defend and protect the former president from political persecution. ANC reiterates its support for the work of the Commission of Inquiry into State Capture:  – Additional reporting by Ayanda Mhlongo.