More than 3000 learners have not yet been placed in schools for the 2021 school year. Education spokesperson Tidimalo Chuene says many of the learners haven’t been placed because their parents prefer certain schools over others. Chuene says there are scores of parents who want their children to be placed at Mbilwi Secondary School in Sibasa, while there are four other schools that can accommodate the learners. “Learners from that area have options of five secondary schools now one of the secondary schools of course is Mbilwi. We do not have a crises of space we only have a challenge of parents preferring one school over the other. Now looking into provincial picture we had about 3 600 unplaced learners but safe to say the process is continuing across the province and we are hoping that the number will be reduced.” Parents across the country have mixed reactions to schools reopening Parents express mixed views about the reopening of public schools as government schools across the country open for learning on Monday morning. The reopening of public schools was postponed by two weeks in the wake of the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic. Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga gave clarity on how the return to normal schooling is going to go.  Learners at public schools have not been to school since December last year. Schools were due to open on January 27, 2021, but the holidays were extended by another two weeks. Some parents say the reopening of school is actually a good thing for a lot of children who have been away. Because they have been missing out on education and missing out on their future. Parents actually do not know when this COVID-19 is going to end, so they believe the only sensible thing is for their children to go back to school. However, other parents do not agree. They feel scared and since they are still working from home and they are conflicted about allowing their children to go back to school. Parents have also cited concerns raised by Health Minister Dr Zweli Mkhize, who recently warned of a third wave and the fact that South Africa is currently facing a new variant of the virus, which is said to be aggressive. They say the government should ensure that schools meet all the necessary requirements. They want their children protected with sufficient PPE as well as teachers who are in the education system. Teachers say although COVID-19 is bound to be with us for long, they welcome the reopening of schools and say this would be of great benefit to learners in rural areas for whom school closure is exactly that, a great benefit.