The National Commissioner of the Police Service, General Khehla Sitole, has conveyed his condolences to the families of two police officers who were killed while on duty at Kraaifontein in the Western Cape on Sunday morning. The members were on patrol in the early hours Sunday morning at Phumla Street in Bloekombos when their vehicle came under fire in an apparent ambush. Both members were killed on the scene and robbed of their official firearms.  The National Commissioner has condemned the murders and has ordered that the 72-hour Activation Plan be implemented to mobilise all the resources needed to investigate this case. Anyone with information on the incident is appealed to contact Crime Stop at 08600 10111 or send tip-offs on the MySAPS App.  #sapsWC Acting Provincial Commissioner institutes 72-hour activation plan & mobilizes various police units to apprehend those responsible for the killing of 2 Kraaifontein #SAPS members this earlier this morning in Bloekombos. #PoliceKillings #CrimeStop MEhttps://t.co/8Ku7UA68pB pic.twitter.com/87kV9eJgHU — SA Police Service  (@SAPoliceService) February 28, 2021  ‘We must fight that war’ Speaking at the funeral of a constable who was shot dead while attending a gender violence complaint in the Durban metro, Police Minister Bheki Cele said police have the right to protect themselves when they come under attack. “There is war here, and we must fight that war. Because the fact that we have dead bodies here, it tells us we are under attack, and we must repel that and make sure that when the dust settles I am not picking up the dead bodies of the police. I must pick the other body. Not the police.” Cele reiterated calls that police must use maximum force when they are confronted by dangerous criminals. Cele said this could help curb police killings. In the video below, Minister Cele pays tribute to constable Ndlovu:  Suspect arrested for illegal possession of a firearm in Kraaifontein on Sunday. #sapsWC Suspect arrested for illegal possession of a firearm in Kraaifontein. Unlicensed firearm and ammo seized. #GunsOffTheStreets #SaferCommunities MEhttps://t.co/ExLg33C68F pic.twitter.com/mXknVp7GBF — SA Police Service  (@SAPoliceService) February 28, 2021 