The commission probing allegations of state capture has issued a statement, indicating that it is business as usual on Monday with former president Jacob Zuma scheduled to give testimony until Friday. The commission says evidence leaders and all relevant commission personnel will be at the hearing venue. Earlier, Mkhonto we Sizwe Military Veterans president, Kebby Maphatsoe, said Zuma will be a no-show at the inquiry tomorrow. “He is not going there on Monday. I want to confirm that he is not going there tomorrow and the arrest is not going to just happen immediately. There are processes that are still going to unfold and during that process, we will also be explaining this narrative that the judiciary, the judges can also make mistakes. But if they are biased also it is our right as citizens to say you are biased because you have taken away the right of a citizen,” said Maphatsoe. The MKMVA has warned that the trampling of Zuma’s rights by the Constitutional Court may result in civil unrest. Maphatsoe says the MKVA will mobilise society to defend Zuma. The NEC of #MKMVA just concluded a productive meeting of over seven hours long with @PresJGZuma at Nkandla. #PresidentZuma reiterated that he will NOT go to the #ZondoCommission, & MKMVA pledged our full support for this decision. We wholeheartedly agree with Msholozi’s reasons. pic.twitter.com/y9R9kAqDaY — Carl Niehaus (@niehaus_carl) February 11, 2021  Zuma has received a summons from the commission to appear before it for the entire week to answer allegations made against him by more than 30 witnesses. However, the former President remains defiant and has indicated that he won’t comply with the order. MKMVA visited Zuma last week at his Nkandla home, where Zuma briefed them about his position going forward. ANC leadership in a quagmire The matter has been under discussion at this weekend’s ANC NEC meeting, with the party’s top leadership expected to meet with Zuma to persuade him to comply with its resolution that members cooperate with the Zondo Commission. Zuma’s decision not to appear before the Zondo Commission under scrutiny:  Disregard for the rule of law The Council for the Advancement of the South African Constitution (Casac) has warned that failure by former President to appear before the Zondo Commission on Monday will set a bad precedent and promote disregard for the rule of law. “Well Mr Zuma will once again be displaying the fact that he thinks that he is above the law and that the law that applies to every other South African does not apply to him. It will certainly be undermining the respect for the rule of law. It will call into question whether other witnesses who have been subpoenaed to appear before the commission will indeed do so, they follow the example of Mr Zuma and fail to appear to answer questions that the commission has for them, says Casac Executive Secretary, Lawson Naidoo.