The Presiding Officers of Parliament have called for an end to acts of violence and criminality in KwaZulu-Natal and Gauteng. They have also appealed for calm and adherence to the rule of law. Crowds of people have been looting shops and malls in Gauteng and KwaZulu-Natal. There has also been torching of trucks, stoning of cars, and the destruction of other key infrastructure. National Assembly Speaker, Thandi Modise, and NCOP chairperson Amos Masondo say the right to peaceful protests is enshrined in the Constitution. However, violence, criminality, and incitement go against the country’s constitutional democracy. They say while they are sympathetic to the personal difficulties facing former President Jacob Zuma, the rule of law and supremacy of the Constitution must prevail and be observed by all. Volatile situation in Jabulani Mall in Soweto as looters take on law enforcement:  Meanwhile, Democratic Alliance (DA) leader John Steenhuisen has called on President Cyril Ramaphosa to urgently intervene to control ongoing violent protests. The DA leader says authorities need to act in a coordinated manner. “What we are seeing now from law enforcement is a frantic and uncoordinated response to the violence, as opposed to a focused approach based on intelligence. It is critical that government and law enforcement get ahead of this curve, and that President Ramaphosa takes immediate steps to quell the violence and looting.” Urgent and firm action is now necessary to restore law and order. Let’s get SANDF and more boots on the ground and Parliament must immediately reconvene.  pic.twitter.com/54nYnaElgL — John Steenhuisen MP (@jsteenhuisen) July 12, 2021  Deployment of SANDF The SANDF says it’s currently busy with pre-deployment processes and procedures. The number of soldiers deployed will be determined based on an assessment of the situation on the ground. SANDF says its objective is to provide a safe working environment for members of the SAPS and other law enforcement agencies while they carry out their duties. Members of SANDF stationed at national key points: 