AmaZulu King Misuzulu ka Zwelithini has made an impassioned plea to the Amazulu nation to desist from participating in the on-going unrest, sweeping across the province and South Africa. It was his first public address since becoming King of the AmaZulu nation. He also spoke out against racial divisions saying that it will reverse the progress that has been made. Amazulu King Misuzulu ka Zwelithini has spoken out against the destruction, burning, and looting of factories and shops across KwaZulu-Natal. He says the unrest will have serious implications for the economy, leading to hunger for the most vulnerable. “This chaos is destroying our country and the economy but those who will suffer the most are poor of the poorest. The vulnerable when food is not delivered, we will go hungry,” Amazulu King Misuzulu ka Zwelithini said. In the video below looting continues in and around Durban:  The King expressed concern about the impact the violence and destruction of property would have on the economy and the healthcare sector. “I appeal to the Zulu nation to withdraw from the participation of the destruction of the country, I appeal for calm and for peace to be restored and let’s not allow politics to change the dignity the nation and led to destruction,” Amazulu King Misuzulu ka Zwelithini added. The violence has forced communities across the province from Nkandla in northern KwaZulu-Natal to Amanzimtoti on the south coast to form crime prevention groups. Reports are emerging that in some instances the fear over the ongoing violence is creating racial tensions. Amazulu King has spoken out against these alleged racial divisions, saying it will reverse the progress that has been made. “I request what is happening between the Zulus and Indians with immediate effect it must come to an end. Our Indian brothers are closest neighbours and they are the biggest population of Indians in KZN outside India and through that, there are people who come to us and say thank you to the Zulu people and to the Zulu Royal family that we are living in peace with our brothers and I appeal to people that we embrace the Indians and I appeal for peace” Amazulu King Misuzulu ka Zwelithini says. The full address by the AmaZulu King is in the video below: