President Cyril Ramaphosa has described the passing of City of Johannesburg Executive Mayor, Geoff Makhubo, as a loss to the city and the province at large. Ramaphosa has extended his condolences to the family, friends, colleagues and comrades of the late mayor. Mayor Makhubo died in Johannesburg on Thursday from COVID-19-related complications. “The passing of Mayor Makhubo is a stark reminder of the threat posed by this deadly pandemic against which we are all extremely vulnerable,” says Ramaphosa. The president lauded Makhubo for his contribution to the national effort to fight the pandemic. “Since he received his own diagnosis in June this year, Mayor Makhubo regularly posted public health messages urging people to take responsibility for their own safety and that of others,” Ramaphosa added. Ramaphosa says Makhubo was an experienced public servant in the City of Johannesburg, including as Member of the Mayoral Committee for Finance (MMC), as leader of the opposition in council, and then as mayor. “Losing Makhubo at such a difficult time for the City of Johannesburg and the country is a blow; our thoughts and prayers are with the family and with his colleagues at this difficult time.” We extend our deepest condolences to the family, friends, colleagues and comrades of the late mayor @GeoffMakhubo. The passing of Mayor Makhubo is a stark reminder of the threat posed by this deadly pandemic against which we are all extremely vulnerable. #RIPGeoffMakhubo pic.twitter.com/sbmFc50Z23 — Cyril Ramaphosa  #StaySafe (@CyrilRamaphosa) July 9, 2021  ‘Irreparable loss’ The South African Local Government Association (SALGA) has also expressed its condolences on Makhubo’s passing. SALGA describes it as an irreparable loss to the entire sector. “SALGA is highly appreciative of the leadership of Mayor Makhubo during his years of service in South Africa’s local government sector. He gave an honest rendering of his time and energy on the front line of local democracy in the City of Johannesburg, serving residents and communities in a way that gave them more say in the services they received,” says SALGA. SALGA expresses its sincere condolences on the passing of the Executive Mayor of the @CityofJoburgZA Cllr. Geoffrey Makhubo pic.twitter.com/f5vzhK2KFk — SALGA (@SALGA_Gov) July 9, 2021  The governing ANC says the party’s late Johannesburg regional chairperson will be remembered for his unifying spirit, ardent love for young people and revolutionary zeal to better society. MESSAGES OF CONDOLENCES TO MAKHUBO’S FAMILY ANC THE ANC Dear All Due to COVID-19 Regulations, we advise that people should not go to the family house to send their condolences. Please utilise this link to send your condolences to the family and the ANC:https://t.co/L60dQtIpBi — ANC Greater Johannesburg Region (@ANCJHB) July 9, 2021 