A truck owner whose vehicle was torched on the N3 in Mooi River, in the KwaZulu-Natal (KZN) Midlands, is blaming the government for not being proactive in preventing the damage. On Friday, law enforcement officials had their hands full with a series of protests scattered across the province. Ntuthuko Mhlongo’s truck was among the 25 that were torched overnight. Mhlongo says police should have been deployed on the national routes, knowing that these hotspots are always targeted during protests. “It’s a loss to me it’s also a loss to the economy of South Africa it’s a lot of loss because there is going to be some retrenchment now because the other companies won’t be able to carry on with their normal work also the drivers won’t have some work is protests is killing our economy I think the government needs to do something because they know that Mooi river is the biggest for the route for Durban and Joburg.” In Pictures: KZN protests  Video | Trucks burnt on the N3 at the Mooi River Toll Plaza  KZN Premier appealed for calm in the province. KZN Premier Sihle Zikalala has appealed for calm in the province. Zikalala says it is believed that the protests are in connection with the incarceration of former President Jacob Zuma. “It’s is reported and believed that the protests are on the incarceration of former President and his excellency comrade Jacob Zuma. We understand the extreme anger of the people who are protesting, however, we call on those who are protesting to do so through peaceful means and avid violence and destruction at all costs,” says Zikalala. Former President Jacob Zuma has lost his application for a stay of his arrest. The High Court in Pietermaritzburg handed down judgment on Friday. Zuma approached the court despite him already being behind bars at the Escourt Correctional Services Facility.  A view from the top as several trucks are removed from the Mooi River plaza N3 in KwaZulu-Natal by tow trucks. Amongst the vehicles torched was a petrol tanker(Sky Logistics) Fortunately it was empty. #sabcnews pic.twitter.com/w0JtIoDk3U — Jayed-Leigh Paulse (@JayedLeigh) July 10, 2021    Video | KZN Government calls for calm amid growing threats of more violent protests  Motorists warned to avoid N3 highway in Durban following the protest, trucks set alight The N3 highway in Durban from the Midmar Dam offramp to Pietermaritzburg has remained closed in both directions. This is the latest in a series of sporadic protests that are taking place across the province. Video | KZN Protests:   Trucks burnt on the N3 at the Mooi River Toll Plaza   