South Africans aren’t letting recent events that left 212 people dead get in the way of their Mandela Day. Residents of Johannesburg in Gauteng have been braving the cold and the pandemic to make sure that they’re still able to contribute 67 minutes in memory of former president Nelson Mandela. Many are abiding by lockdown level four restrictions and are holding events virtually, with participants getting involved and doing their part from the comfort and safety of their homes. In the townships of Soweto and Alexandra, various building and feeding programmes are under way, amid widespread community clean-ups after a week of violent protests and looting. A number of initiatives are also running on the famous Vilakazi Street, with the aim to bring some relief to the tourism hub hard-hit by COVID-19. The South African National Blood Service has also urged people to give just 30 of their 67 minutes to donate blood and save a life. Santaco, Airlink and Shoprite join hands The South African National Taxi Council (Santaco), Airlink and Shoprite are facilitating the donation of essential items to various townships in Pietermaritzburg, KwaZulu-Natal, where people have been affected by looting and unrest for the past week. The organisations have also united to assist communities in commemoration of Mandela Day. SANTACO provincial manager, Sifiso Shangase, says they hope to quell the unrest. “This day means a lot to all of us especially when you look at the value of the old man. He was basically preaching the teaching of helping those that are in need, the values of unifying, of nation-building and so on. So the intention is to go to the communities who were affected by the unrest which took place here in Pietermaritzburg. We will be going to those needy families and thereafter we will go amd clean one of the affected areas in the unrest. We’ve got about 91 volunteers and these guys came all the way from Gauteng,” says Shangase. Food parcels for Pietermaritzburg communities:  Community members who have received food parcels in Northdale and Raisethorpe say they are grateful for the donations. However, they say they have no place to keep it because their homes were burnt down following days of violent unrest. A resident says tensions that have ensued and have left them homeless during the looting spree, their informal settlement was burned. Another resident says he lost everything, his house was burnt but he doesn’t have anywhere to store the food. Scores of Northdale residents are forced to return home empty-handed. The demand for the food parcels exceeded the targeted 450 families in this part of Pietermaritzburg. #NelsonMandelaDay #SABCNews pic.twitter.com/9VxJ62DNcX — Maageketla (@MaageMohlabe) July 18, 2021  Food parcels for Raisethorpe, Oribi villages in Pietermaritzburg:  Red Cross Society does its bit The South African Red Cross Society in the Free State has given out grocery vouchers to some needy households in Klipfontein – an informal settlement in Bloemfontein. The organisation visited the area as part of commemorating Mandela day. An emotional Seloane Hlalele could not hold back tears when she received a voucher from unexpected visitors at her home. The 72-year-old granny, who has a challenge of not getting a social grant, says she rely on her grandchild’s grant to buy food. Hlalele says she is overjoyed as she did not know where her next meal will come from. “I’m so emotional I don’t know what to do. I’m so happy. I thought my God has forgotten me. But that is not the case as I have visitors that I was not expecting. I was called while at my odd job and got scared to see so many cars outside my place,” she says. Another resident Nontsikelelo Tyatya also expressed her gratitude to Red Cross. “I’m very happy it’s Mandela day today, it’s the best present that I’ve ever got in my life, thank you Tata.” Lahliwe Tshoaeli who also received a grocery voucher was also assisted to register to be vaccinated. “I feel good about Mandela day. We wish we could also see many more years. And help raise our children to be obliging children,” says Tshoaeli. Provincial manager of Red Cross, Claudia Mangwegape, says they decided on vouchers so that they do not limit people on what to buy. “The importance of this day for us is to continue to give back because it’s not only 67 minutes. It’s 365 days for us as Red Cross. So we were giving away gift vouchers that was supported by PepSkor and it has R500 in it so that people can have ownership of buying what they need. So we have been giving away close to 100 gift vouchers around the province of the Free State. So we continue to do what former president of South Africa Mr Nelson Mandela task us a nation to do and give back to our communities,” says Mangwegape. The residents say they hope that the Mangaung metro municipality will speed up the process of improving their lives. The municipality said plans are under way to develop the area with sanitation and electricity. House for pensioner In Upington, an 85-year-old pensioner’s family, which has been living in a dilapidated shack following a fire, received a house. We Care Foundation, an NPO based in Upington assisted in providing a decent shelter for Magdalene Springbok and her blind son. In marking Nelson Mandela Day, the Springbok family moved into their new home and received food supplies from the NPO. – Additional reporting by Ishmael Modiba, Magekeetla Mohlabe and Margaret Mothibi. 