Former president Jacob Zuma is filing an urgent application for the rescission of the Constitutional Court ruling in terms of which he was sentenced to 15 months in prison for contempt by refusing to appear before the Commission of Inquiry in State Capture. A legal expert says in terms of the Constitutional Court judgment former president Jacob Zuma has until midnight on Sunday to hand himself over to the police. The court stipulated that Zuma hand himself over by no later than five calendar days after the order on Tuesday. Zuma must present himself to either the Nkandla or Johannesburg Central police station. The court has also issued a warrant of committal to the head of the Westville prison in Durban that Zuma be received at that prison. University of Pretoria senior law lecturer, Llewelyn Curlewis, says Zuma will probably be detained close to Pietermaritzburg, where he has to appear in his corruption case again on the 19th of July. “In short, it’s quite simple. The practical effect of him being incarcerated as near as possible to the High Court in Pietermaritzburg is the obvious choice for his incarceration. If it is true that he will be incarcerated in the Westville Durban correctional facilities that in itself suggests to me that they already considered the possibility of keeping him as close as possible to Pietermaritzburg where his trial will commence shortly in July.” Zuma’s constitutional rights have been compromised The Umkhonto weSizwe Military Veterans Association (MKMVA) says Zuma’s constitutional rights have been compromised and it will not allow him to be sent to jail. The association says the highest court in the land was too quick to come to a decision to send Zuma to 15 months imprisonment for contempt of court. MKMVA spokesperson, Carl Niehaus, speaking at Nkandla in KwaZulu-Natal, says they will ensure that Zuma is not taken to jail. “All of these issues are fundamental constitutional matters which have been eroded away. Despite all of these, comrades we saw a travesty of justice happening in front of our eyes this week with that judgment of the acting chief justice, justice Sisi Khampepe,” says Neihaus. ANC distances itself from protests in support of Zuma The ANC in the Nelson Mandela Bay region has distanced itself from the protests by members in support of former president Jacob Zuma. Regional spokesperson, Luyolo Nqakula, says the action is in breach of a party directive. “We also wish to further state that as the ANC NEC has pronounced itself on the matter. We are waiting for particular guidance from the NEC of the ANC. We also wish to further state that any member of the ANC in the region who is part of those activities will not only be in violation of the directive which has been issued that no political gatherings of the ANC are to take place in level 4 over the period of 14 days.” Zuma’s supporters have vowed to prevent law enforcement agencies from arresting the former president.