The State Capture Commission will resume hearings on Monday morning with Bosasa related testimony. Bosasa was a politically connected company where kickbacks were allegedly paid for government contracts – among other things. Pretoria Chief Magistrate Desmond Nair and former Deputy Justice Minister Thabang Makwetla are expected to testify. In June the Pretoria Specialised Commercial Crimes Court postponed the R1.8 billion fraud and corruption matter involving the politically connected firm, Bosasa.  The move was to allow for all four accused to be present in court. Former Commissioner of Correctional Services, Linda Mti, former  Chief Financial Officer, Patrick Gillingham, former Bosasa CFO, Andries Van Tonder, and Bosasa COO, Angelo Agrizzi face fraud and corruption charges. This relates to the four tenders awarded to Bosasa and its subsidiaries between August 2004 and 2007. In the video below, State Capture Commission hears Bosasa-related evidence:  Spokesperson for the National Prosecuting Authority’s (NPA)  Investigating Directorate, Sindisiwe Seboka, said the tenders were for rendering catering and training services, among other things. She said Agrizzi was not in court. “The Bosasa R1.8 billion fraud and corruption matter has been postponed to the 13th of August this year for all the accused to be present in court. The fourth accused which is former Bosasa COO, Angelo Agrizzi, was again a no-show and sent a medical certificate which was handed to court by his lawyer. The other three were present in court.” Former Manager for Supply Management at the SA Civil Aviation authority Mbulelo Gingcana said he did not know nor had ever met Agrizzi before the Agrizzi appeared at the State Capture Commission in Johannesburg. In testimony to the Commission, Agrizzi alleged that Gingcana received R240 000 worth of security installations from Bosasa for free at his home in March 2017. Agrizzi said this was part of the company’s special operations aimed at nurturing high-profile individuals. However, commission evidence lea