The governing party has commended Former President Jacob Zuma for handing himself over to police in compliance with a Constitutional Court ruling related to his contempt of court case. ANC National Spokesperson, Pule Mabe, told SABC News that Zuma’s decision was a display of leadership. Asked whether ANC President Cyril Ramaphosa would be speaking on the matter, he said there was no need for the governing party to overexert itself regarding the issue. This is in order to allow the courts to do their work independently. Zuma handed himself over to police just before midnight on Wednesday, a few hours after ambulances were turned away from entering the Nkandla homestead by his son, Edward, and a small crowd which had gathered in support of the former president. Police issued a statement just after midnight, confirming that they had Zuma in custody. JUST IN:#ZumaArrest The South African Police Service says that former President Jacob Zuma has been placed in custody.#SABCNEWS https://t.co/lmLRBt24ux — Chriselda ‘Babes We Ndaba’ Lewis (@Chriseldalewis) July 7, 2021  The former president was found guilty of contempt of court last week and sentenced to 15 months in jail. The matter relates to his defiance of an order by the apex court to appear before the Commission of Inquiry into State Capture. Shortly after the ruling, thousands of supporters and some governing party leaders gathered at his homestead. These included prominent ANC NEC members such as Lindiwe Sisulu, suspended ANC Secretary-General Ace Magashule and KZN Premier Sihle Zikalala, among others. Amabutho flanked the former president on Saturday when he came out to address his supporters. Reaction to Zuma’s arrest has been varied on social media: On behalf of the Zuma family, the former President of Africa President Jacob Zuma has decided to comply with the incarceration order. He is already in police custody. pic.twitter.com/5v20SAPH4E — Duduzile Sambundla Zuma (@DZumaSambundla) July 7, 2021  However difficult this is. My sympathies lie with citizens who tonight are without jobs, healthcare, education due to the unabated corruption that the ANC advanced through Jacob Zuma. SA must rise & uphold its constitution. This too shall pass, we must have constitutional future! — Mmusi Maimane (@MmusiMaimane) July 7, 2021  I just saw @PresJGZuma before he left for prison. He was strong as usual. This is heartbreaking. I am heartbroken and very angry. I will never forgive those who have allowed this to happen. #LongLiveNxamalala!  pic.twitter.com/ITTPEQLhdx — Carl Niehaus (@niehaus_carl) July 7, 2021  Following a plea by Zuma’s legal representatives, the Constitutional Court is expected to hear his rescission application on July 12.