The Democratic Alliance (DA) says the rule of law has prevailed. This after former President Jacob Zuma handed himself over to authorities to serve his 15-month sentence given by the Constitutional Court last week for contempt of court. The DA says had Zuma not been arrested, the country would have been in a constitutional crisis. DA leader, John Steenhuisen says this shows that all citizens are equal before the law. “Mr Zuma has still got a long road ahead of him. I think there must be some senior politicians in the governing party who are looking at the events in the last 48 hours with some concern.” Zuma incarceration lauded:  African National Congress (ANC) Veterans League president Snuki Zikalala says the arrest is good for democracy and the law. He says it is unfortunate that Zuma at some stage decided to disobey the rule of law and ended up being sentenced to 15-months to prison. Zuma handed himself over to authorities last night to start serving his sentence. Zikalala says it is sad that it has to happen this way. “It sends a very strong signal with the coming local government elections. The ANC itself has embarked on a cleansing process. Candidates who are going to be councillors none of them should have criminal records. They should be vetted. They should be vetted by the community. This person is compassionate, has integrity he will be able to deliver on our services.” United Democratic Movement leader Bantu Holomisa has commended Zuma for handing himself to authorities. Holomisa says this is a lesson to other leaders. #ZumaArrest: Good for former President Jacob Zuma, he's done the right thing. Let's wait for Monday for "what's next". That said, his arrest must send shivers down the spines of the #ComradesInCorruption. The chickens will come home to roost! pic.twitter.com/T9I59HXYY7 — Bantu Holomisa (@BantuHolomisa) July 8, 2021  The Pan Africanist Congress of Azania says that as Zuma is incarcerated at the Estcourt Correctional Facility in KwaZulu-Natal, former South African President FW de Klerk should also be jailed for the crimes he committed pre-democracy. This comes after families of apartheid victims have also asked that De Klerk face the courts for his actions pre-democracy. “No, no, no, there’s no age, just has nothing to do with age. De Kerk deserves to go to jail even if he’s sick, even if he dies in jail at least we going to find closure. He must go to jail, he belongs to jail he a murderer,” says the PAC. IFP president Velenkosini Hlabisa on Zuma handing himself over to prison officials:  The ANC in KwaZulu-Natal says it will hold a media briefing today in the wake of Zuma‘s incarceration. ANC provincial spokesperson Nhlakanipho Ntombela says they will respond to the many questions around the latest developments and their implications for the party in the province. Correctional Services say Zuma will not get preferential treatment The Department of Correctional Services says Zuma will not receive preferential treatment at their facilities. It says Zuma will be given the same services as that of other inmates. Correctional Services spokesperson Singabakho Nxumalo says Zuma will also not be allowed visitors as per COVID-19 protocols. Nxumalo added that Zuma‘s personal protection will not apply in jail. “All inmates must be kept in a safe and secure environment because should anything happens there we will have to account. This is not just for Mr Zuma but for all other inmates. In this particular case, Mr Zuma is not in a position to go there with the protection he has been having as the former President. That is now been transferred to us to say look after this particular individual.” Correctional Services’ Singabakho Nxumalo on Zuma’s admission 