Members and supporters of the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) gathered at the Oshoek border post on Friday, in solidarity with the citizens of Eswatini, who are calling for electoral reform. The march was led by the leader of the EFF in Mpumalanga, Collen Sedibe. He called on the citizens of Eswatini to continue calling for the unbanning of political parties in Africa’s last absolute monarchy. Members of the EFF chanted slogans at the Oshoek Border Post. Operations were affected at this port of entry as it was completely shut down. The protest action took place despite the prohibition of public gatherings under adjusted level four of the lockdown. Sedibe, who led the protest, justified their decision to march, saying it was not a COVID-19 super spreader event. “No, no, no, we are not against any regulations and we are wearing masks me and you. The people who were here we have checked them they are vaccinated so they are safe. There is no gathering that is banned because there are elections in South Africa coming in October and elections need interactions,” he said. Sedibe read a memorandum of grievances directed to Eswatini’s King Mswati III. He threatened to shut down all ports of entry between South Africa and Eswatini if their demands are not met. Speaking during the march, National Chairperson of the EFF of Swaziland, Hlobisile Sibandze, says King Mswati should face the full might of the law for murder. “Some of our members got shot while on their way to here. Mswati sent his police to shoot our members while on their way here. They tried to run and unfortunately, one of them was shot and injured and another arrested. Furthermore, Mswati should hand himself to the international criminal court because he has got blood in his hands.” The EFF in Mpumalanga has refuted allegations that they are instigating violence at Eswatini. They have given King Mswati seven working days to respond to their grievances. [In Pictures]: The EFF in Mpumalanga at the Swaziland border (Oschoek border), marching in solidarity with the people of eSwatini. #EswatiniLivesMatter pic.twitter.com/2jWHgbDwmA — Economic Freedom Fighters (@EFFSouthAfrica) July 9, 2021  The EFF in Mpumalanga arriving at the Swaziland border today, marching in solidarity with the people of eSwatini. The EFF calls for the immediate down-grading of the status of the SA embassy in eSwatini and for our ambassador to eSwatini to be recalled. #EswatiniLivesMatter pic.twitter.com/lHVnya96zW — Economic Freedom Fighters (@EFFSouthAfrica) July 9, 2021  EFF members protest at Mananga border in solidarity with people of Eswatini: 