The ANC in the Nelson Mandela Bay region has distanced itself from the protests by members in support of former president Jacob Zuma. On Tuesday, the former president was sentenced to 15 months imprisonment for contempt of court after he refused to appear before the State Capture Commission. Regional spokesperson, Luyolo Nqakula, says the action is in breach of a party directive. “We also wish to further state that as the ANC NEC has pronounced itself on the matter. We are waiting for particular guidance from the NEC of the ANC. We also wish to further state that any member of the ANC in the region who is part of those activities will not only be in violation of the directive which has been issued that no political gatherings of the ANC are to take place in level 4 over the period of 14 days.” Zuma’s supporters have vowed to prevent law enforcement agencies from arresting the former president. A former ANC councillor in the Nelson Mandela Bay metro, Andile Lungisa, has taken a petition to the Motherwell Magistrate Court to oppose the incarceration of Zuma. Lungisa and supporters of the former president are demonstrating against his arrest and imprisonment. He maintains that Zuma’s sentence goes against the constitution and as an elderly person he can be exposed to COVID-19 in prison. “We will also petition the NEC of the ANC to say [former] president Zuma is an elderly citizen like all elderly citizens in this country, the pandemic is severe and serious and kills elderly people. That is why we have decided and joined by other comrades to take this petition to say [former] president Zuma cannot be arrested.” This morning as ordinary SA we will deliver a Petition to the Judicial Service Commission, the Parliament of the Republic of South Africa, the National Council of Provinces, the President of the Republic and the Constitutional Court. About the recent judgment by Justice Khampepe — Andile Lungisa (@mrlungisa) July 2, 2021  Former president’s supporters in Gqeberha march against his sentencing: 