South African Communist Party General Secretary, Dr Blade Nzimande, is calling for an urgent investigation into the origins of the gunshots  heard meters away from former president Jacob Zuma’s homestead in Nkandla, in northern KwaZulu-Natal. Hundreds of Zuma’s supporters are gathering at the homestead in defiance of level four lockdown regulations. They are there to show solidarity to the former president following a Constitutional Court ruling that’s sentenced him to 15 months in jail. #sabcnews #sabckzn Over a thousand people here in Nkandla the numbers are increasing. Later today former President Jacob Zuma is expected to speak for the first time after the Concourt judgment. pic.twitter.com/FdQ34GPJUR — Nonkululeko Hlophe (@Leko3) July 4, 2021  Speaking during a virtual centenary celebration of the SACP on Sunday, Nzimande called for action against those involved. “The gunshots that we have heard, by the elements inciting violence must be condemned in the strongest terms and must be investigated thoroughly without fear and favour. Those responsible must be brought to book, no stone must be left un-turned in defending our democracy. To be a revolutionary is to know when to use guns and to know that this is no time for guns, its time to build a peaceful and a democratic South Africa,” the SACP leader said. Nzimande also slammed the members of the uMkhonto we Sizwe Veterans Association (MKMVA) who have vowed to protect the former president from being arrested. “Real MK Veterans know that life is invaluable and is irreplaceable. They will not go around carelessly inciting violence and mobilising to undermine the very hard-earned democratic transition that the MK fought for. Let the name of MK not be allowed to used to pursue what a certain is a counter-revolutionary agenda. We say this because we know as communists what war is,” he said.  The MKMVA members tried to ascertain the direction of the gunshots, but could not find the source. Zuma’s son Edward has pleaded with those who are outside the Nkandla home to be disciplined. Edward says that is a request coming from the Zuma family. Zuma’s other son, Duduzane, made his first appearance on Sunday, joining his father’s supporters toyi-toying outside the family’s homestead. The businessman says his father is in high spirits. The former president will address his supporters this evening. On Saturday, he briefly emerged from his homestead and made brief remarks. “We can’t be herded like goats, being sent from pillar to post. We must respect each other and the law. When I was fighting for freedom, I didn’t respect the law of the oppressors, they arrested me and threw me in jail. I said they only arrested me because they had the power, the guns and everything. It cannot be that after being free, in a democracy then be arrested by those who says I must respect the law, when they themselves don’t respect the law. No, it cannot be. I don’t know what the lawyers will say, but in the end I will take my own decision,” he told his supporters. Zuma faces a 15-month jail term for defying the Constitutional Court’s order to continue testifying at the Zondo Commission. He has applied for the sentence to be overturned and the Concourt has agreed to hear his application. The matter has been set down for July 12. Two police officers are in the vicinity, monitoring the situation.