The South African government has raised concern about the deteriorating situation in the Kingdom of Eswatini. Rolling protests in the country started last weekend, with demonstrators calling for electoral reforms. Property, including trucks, has been damaged and shops looted. Some deaths have also been reported. In a statement released by the Department of International Relations and Cooperation, the South African government urged the security forces of Eswatini to exercise total restrain and protect the lives of the people of that country. It also called for all political actors and civil society to engage in meaningful dialogue in order to resolve the current political challenges facing the country. DIRCO’s Clayson Monyela expresses the SA government’s view in the video below:  ANC weighs in South Africa’s governing African National Congress (ANC) has reiterated its call for good governance and democracy in the country. The party also called for dialogue, the unbanning of political parties and the release of political activists. The protests in Eswatini have affected the economic, with hundreds of trucks transporting goods are stranded at the Oshoek Border Post. Government has also imposed a curfew in a bid to quell the situation. Below is the ANC’s full statement on the instability in Eswatini:  Eswatini government imposes a curfew amid pro-democracy protests The kingdom has also dismissed as false reports that King Mswati III has fled the country. It re-assured the nation that his majesty was in the country and working with the government to advance the kingdom’s goals. Protesters are demanding electoral reforms and, schools and government institutions have been closed. Pro-democracy protests continue in Eswatini. In an attempt to return the situation to normal, the government has introduced a curfew. People are not allowed to be on the streets from six o’clock in the evening and five o’clock in the morning. The government of Eswatini has described the ongoing protests as criminal. Some of the ports of entry, especially on the side of Eswatini, were reportedly closed. Acting Prime Minister, Themba Masuku has assured residents of Eswatini and the international community that the situation will be returned to normal. Latest on Eswatini with Sophie Mokoena:  A call for unity The People’s United Democratic Movement (Pudemo) has urged Amaswati to continue pushing for reform. The organisation believes it is time for Eswatini to have a multi-party democracy. Communist Party Of Swaziland’s Pius Vilakati discusses the root causes of the protests: