President Cyril Ramaphosa has lauded the Communist Party of China (CPC) for its role in fostering global peace and cooperation through its unwavering stance in support of multilateralism. Speaking during the “Communist Party of China and World Political Parties Summit” that was held virtually on Tuesday, President Ramaphosa told the more than 600 political party leaders and Heads of State: “We applaud the CPC’s internationalist policies, which over the course of many decades have promoted multinationalism, understanding and peace.” His remarks were in tandem with President Xi Jinping of China, who is also the general secretary of the Central Committee of the ruling CPC. President Xi called for a concerted international effort to oppose the practice of “unilateralism disguised as multilateralism”. Although President Xi did not mention the USA by name, Washington has often been accused of “going it alone” in global affairs, which is against international law. “We should stand opposed to the practice of unilateralism disguised as multilateralism and say no to hegemony and power politics,” says President Xi. The summit was held to mark the 100th anniversary of the founding of the CPC on July 21, 1921, when only 50 people started the party that today boasts a membership of a staggering more than 95 million members. The CPC is credited with being the mastermind behind China’s phenomenal economic advancement and a towering global political standing. In his keynote address, President Xi emphasised the need for international solidarity, saying “no country or nation should be left behind on the road to the wellbeing of all mankind. All countries and nations are equally entitled to development opportunities and rights to development.” China has over the last two decades alone lifted more than 700 million indigenous peasants out of poverty and thrust them into the country’s thriving middle class. China is however willing to share its developmental strategies with the rest of the world. According to President Xi, Beijing is willing “to contribute more Chinese solutions and Chinese strength to the poverty reduction process worldwide”. On the Covid-19 pandemic, President Xi said: “China will spare no effort to support international cooperation against Covid-19.” He said his country will make “extremely arduous efforts” in delivering its promise of achieving a carbon peak. President Ramaphosa, who spoke in his capacity as the President of the ruling African National Congress (ANC), told delegates: “We are inspired by the progress that China has made to eradicate absolute poverty in the largest developing economy on the planet.” He continued: “We are today representing different movements from different parts of the globe, but we share a common desire for peace, understanding and progress.” He added: “Many of us who are participating in this Summit owe a great debt of gratitude to the CPC for its unwavering support and solidarity as we have fought for liberation and as we have worked to develop our nations.” President Ramaphosa, whose address was widely received positively, also said: “As Africans, we deeply appreciate the progressive policies that China has pursued in supporting the development of our continent and the aspirations of our people.” China was at the forefront of integrating African economies “through measures like the Belt and Road Initiative and extensive skills development. China continues to support economic reform, infrastructure development, enhanced trade and greater integration among African economies,” President Ramaphosa said. International cooperation was important at this juncture in human history as the “world confronts the Coronavirus pandemic,” President Ramaphosa, before adding: “We are called upon to give material effect to the principles of solidarity, unity and compassion.” He concluded by saying “as the African National Congress, we are honoured to have a strategic relationship with the Communist Party of China as a true and valued friend”. Other Heads of State who participated in the Summit included Cuba, Russia, Argentina, Vietnam, Spain, Greece, Philippines, Vietnam, Serbia, Kazakhstan, Pakistan and from the continent, among others, were Zimbabwe, Mozambique, Namibia and the Democratic Republic of Congo.