The Umkhonto weSizwe Military Veterans Association (MKMVA) has raised questions over the temporary suspension of its Spokesperson, Carl Niehaus, from the African National Congress (ANC). This after the ANC’s National Executive Committee (NEC) accused him of bringing the party into disrepute – following utterances he made while wearing party regalia outside the home of former President Jacob Zuma, in KwaZulu-Natal, at the weekend. The ANC announced Niehaus’s suspension on Wednesday. Video: ANC briefs media on suspension of Carl Niehaus  The NEC says it will institute disciplinary proceedings against Niehaus within 30 days. Niehaus says he will appeal the suspension. Video: MKMVA spokesperson, Carl Niehaus reacts to ConCourt’s Zuma ruling in June 2021  MKMVA President, Kebby Maphatsoe says: “What he said there was on behalf of the MKMVA, not because he had his own statements and we are all saying consistency. We will act within the confines of the law and that is what Carl has been saying. So we don’t understand this charging of comrade Carl.”  We’ll have no choice but to arrest Zuma if ConCourt doesn’t respond: Police ministry Police Minister Bheki Cele ’s office says it has until midnight to take former President Jacob Zuma into custody if it does not receive a response from the court. Do you think Zuma will hand himself over to the police by midnight? #SABCNews #Nkandla #JacobZuma #ZumaArrest — SABC News (@SABCNews) July 7, 2021  The police ministry says if it doesn’t receive a response from the office of the Chief Justice by the end of business on Wednesday, police officials will have no choice but to effect the arrest warrant against the former President, Jacob Zuma. The Constitutional Court’s ultimatum that the former President hand himself over to the police in Nkandla or Johannesburg within five days expired on Sunday midnight. Meaning that it was now up to Police Minister, Bheki Cele, and the National Police Commissioner, Khehla Sitole, to ensure that he gets committed to prison. On Tuesday Cele, in a letter penned by the State Attorney’s office on his behalf, informed the acting chief justice, Raymond Zondo, that he would hold off on the arrest due to the litigation that Zuma is currently embarking on. He also requested clarity from the Apex Court on a way forward in the matter. Cele’s office says it has until midnight to take the former president into custody and it will execute the order of the Constitutional Court if it receives no response from the Apex Court by the end of business on Wednesday. Spokesperson Lirandzu Themba explains the ministry’s position:  Video: Timeline of Zuma’s court appearances over the last 16 years  