Former president Jacob Zuma has emerged from his home in Nkandla, flanked by AmaZulu regiments (Amabutho) and leaders of his supporters. This is the first time he is seen after the Concourt decision sending him to jail. A large number of people including, some members of Amabutho, ANC members and supporters have gathered outside the former president’s home. The Amabutho are singing hymns, while ANC members and supporters are chanting pro- Zuma songs. Some of the ANC members have come from other provinces. #sabcnews #sabckzn BLF members also arriving in Nkandla pic.twitter.com/HenUOpYUgY — Nonkululeko Hlophe (@Leko3) July 3, 2021  Police have been spotted patrolling the area with a few monitoring at a distance. Some supporters are not wearing masks, which is in contravention of the lockdown level 4 regulations. EFF leader, Julius Malema, has warned both president Cyril Ramaphosa and Police Minister, Bheki Cele, to make sure that the country doesn’t see a repeat of the Marikana massacre in Nkandla. “Ramaphosa and Bheki Cele should not think they will shoot our people the same way they did in Marikana. We are not part of what’s happening in Nkandla – but no one who suffer from the interest of absolute power should use fire to kill our people in KwaZulu-Natal,” he says. Update from outside Zuma’s homestead:  The former president arrived in Nkandla on Friday night after having been away from home since Tuesday. #sabcnews #sabckzn Former President Jacob Zuma has emerged from his home flanked by Amabutho and leaders of his supporters. This is the first time he is seen after the Concourt decision sending him to jail. pic.twitter.com/90xwp4nPKY — Nonkululeko Hlophe (@Leko3) July 3, 2021  He is expected to address his supporters on the Constitutional Court saga on Sunday afternoon, hours before the deadline for him to hand himself over to the authorities to start serving his 15-month jail sentence. The deadline is at midnight on Sunday. The Constitutional Court sentenced Zuma after finding him guilty of contempt of court for ignoring the Apex Court’s directive that he continue testifying at the State Capture Commission. While some have hailed the ruling as a landmark, some have slammed it – rejecting it as unfair and emotional. Zuma files urgent application against ConCourt ruling:  Below is an online rally calling for South Africans to respect the Concourt ruling:  #sabcnews #sabckzn Scenes outside the former president Jacob Zuma’s home in Nkandla, some ANC members singing. pic.twitter.com/6ELTmX1SkF — Nonkululeko Hlophe (@Leko3) July 3, 2021 