Police Minister, Bheki Cele, has praised Lieutenant General Nonhlanhla Zulu for her bravery. It has emerged that Zulu sat down with former President Jacob Zuma on Wednesday night, as time for police to issue his warrant of arrest drew closer. The talks with Zuma came amid concerns of possible violence as hundreds of Zuma’s supporters gathered outside his Nkandla home, threating to bar his arrest at all costs. “Major general Zulu was inside the homestead where he was doing all what he was supposed to including negotiating with the family, with the former president himself to make sure that it doesn’t reach the taunt where enforcement would be the only thing will be the only thing,” explains Cele. Cele says he was not prepared to defy the Constitutional Court ruling. “We were ready by the way. The world must understand that we were ready to implement as I’ve said we were not going to defy the Constitutional Court’s decision otherwise that will create anarchy and chaos in the country where the enforcement agencies beginning not listen to the law of the land.” Zulu says she is pleased that the negotiations went her way. “I feel very proud and for the fact that there was no bloodshed and the fact that former president respected the law, there was no hustle as I know that people were speculating. I just want to thank the former president for respecting me and all the people that were engaged in this task. I didn’t struggle for the fact the former president listen to everything that I was suggesting and to make sure that wherever he is, he is safe and healthy knowing that he is an old man,” says Zulu. Zuma’s freedom bid On Friday, the former president has lost his application for a stay of his arrest. He is now pinning his hopes to the Constitutional Court, which will hear his application for the rescission of his 15-month jail sentence on Monday. SABC News reporter, Simphiwe Makhanya on Zuma’s arrest:  ‘Constitutional crisis’ KwaZulu-Natal Premier Sihle Zikalala says since the Constitutional Court judgment, South Africa almost plunged into a constitutional crisis or a civil war of some sort. Zikalala says this has deepened pain among the citizens of the province and the membership of the African National Congress. – Report by Nonhlakanipho Magwaza Below is the full interview with Premier Zikalala: 