Northern Cape police are on high alert in Kimberley amid ongoing violent protests that rocked KwaZulu-Natal and Gauteng. Numerous videos and messages on social media platforms called for a total shutdown in Kimberley. However, police have made a call to Kimberley residents to remain calm, saying no violent acts will be tolerated. The police in the province say any instigators will face the full might of the law. They say contingency plans are in place for any eventuality that may arise. The SAPS’ Colonel Mashay Gamieldien says police are patrolling areas in Kimberley. “There’s currently high police visibility in the Galeshewe, Kagisho area in Kimberley and police will be monitoring and patrolling the area throughout the night,” says Gamieldien. Police further say violent protests won’t be tolerated, urging the public to also refrain from posting false information and videos which create unneccesary panic and fear. Police had their hands full during protests across Gauteng:  More security to restore order President Cyril Ramaphosa says the government is mobilising all security resources to restore order to the areas affected by the violence of the past few days. In an address to the nation on Monday night,  he says it is important to prevent any further loss of life or injury or destruction of infrastructure and property. Ramaphosa says he has authorised the deployment of the South African National Defence Force (SANDF) in support of the police. Ramaphosa says in addition to greater visibility and intelligence operations – they will be prioritising the prosecution of those involved in the violence. “We will take action to protect every person in this country against the threat of violence, imitation, theft and looting. We will not hesitate to arrest and prosecute those who perpetrate these actions and will ensure that they face the full might of our law. This is a clear instruction that I have given our security personnel,” says Ramaphosa. The protests broke out after the jailing of former president Jacob Zuma for defying a Constitutional Court order. President Ramaphosa addresses the nation on outbreaks of violence: 