The National Joint Operational and Intelligence Structure has called on looters to voluntarily hand in the goods they have taken to the nearest police station. This as recovery operations continue following the widespread unrest and looting in KwaZulu-Natal and Gauteng last week. The unrest and looting in these provinces followed protests outside the Estcourt prison where former president Jacob Zuma was incarcerated last weekend. In a statement, the police referred to the violence as a failed insurrection. At least 212 people have died and over 2 000 others have been arrested. Stolen property value to be determined National police spokesperson Mathapelo Peters says the value of the recovered stolen property is yet to be determined. “Looters called upon to voluntarily surrender looted property or face possible arrest and criminal records as the integrated recovery operations continue. The National Joint Operational and Intelligence Structure (NatJOINTS) has welcomed the influx of calls and tip-offs received via the MySAPS app from various communities in both KwaZulu-Natal and Gauteng, which have seen the integrated security forces recover volumes of suspected stolen property whose value is yet to be determined. Meanwhile, Peters says more than 100 people have been arrested for being in possession of stolen property. “In Gauteng, during integrated operations at a number of hostels in mostly Tembisa, Johannesburg, Alexandra and Moroka over the weekend, 14 suspects were arrested for being in possession of suspected looted property. Amongst the goods recovered were bed mattresses, television sets, couches, fridges, sound systems, computer screens laptops, steel frames, grocery, and clothing items. Meanwhile in KwaZulu-Natal, 92 suspects have been arrested over the weekend for being in possession of stolen property.” Acting Minister in the Presidency, Khumbudzo Ntshavheni, says one of the 12 alleged instigators of the violent looting in KwaZulu-Natal and Gauteng has been arrested. The number of deaths as a result of the ongoing violent protests now stands at 117. Briefing the media in Pretoria last Thursday, Ntshavheni said the police are tracing the other 11 suspects. “The question around the 12 alleged instigators we want to report that one is already in custody and the SAPS tracking team has increased the surveillance of the remaining 11,” says Minister Ntshavheni. While calm has been restored in some parts of Gauteng, Ntshavheni says there were six incidents of looting in Gauteng on Thursday. Looting also continued in some parts of KwaZulu-Natal. Ntshavheni says an additional 392 arrests have been made so far. “The situation in KwaZulu-Natal remains volatile but much improved is moving towards stability. Overnight to over two hours ago, 39 incidences have been reported and an additional 392 arrests have been made which makes the accumulative of arrests 1 478. Reported deaths that have been linked to the violence are accumulatively 91 in KZN” says Khumbudzo Ntshavheni. The minister’s full address is in the video below: 