The Jacob Zuma Foundation has indicated that the former President will break his silence on the Constitutional Court saga on Sunday afternoon. The Foundation further says on Tuesday the Pietermaritzburg High Court will hear an urgent interdict preventing Minister of Police from arresting Zuma pending his latest application. Last Tuesday the Constitutional Court sentenced Zuma to 15 months imprisonment for contempt of court. The Concourt had further ordered Cele and Police Commissioner Khehla Sitole to ensure Zuma was arrested if he had failed to hand himself over by latest Sunday midnight. Zuma has not made a public address since the order of the Constitutional Court that sentenced him to prison. Zuma files rescission papers Zuma filed an urgent application for the rescission of the Constitutional Court ruling on Friday. A legal expert says in terms of the Constitutional Court judgment Zuma has until midnight on Sunday to hand himself over to the police. The court stipulated that Zuma hand himself over by no later than five calendar days after the order on Tuesday. Zuma must present himself to either the Nkandla or Johannesburg Central police station. The court has also issued a warrant of committal to the head of the Westville prison in Durban that Zuma be received at that prison. The video below speaks to the rescission papers and what was happening at Zuma’s home in Nkandla on Friday afternoon:  University of Pretoria senior law lecturer, Llewelyn Curlewis, says Zuma will probably be detained close to Pietermaritzburg, where he has to appear in his corruption case again on the 19th of July. “In short, it’s quite simple. The practical effect of him being incarcerated as near as possible to the High Court in Pietermaritzburg is the obvious choice for his incarceration. If it is true that he will be incarcerated in the Westville Durban correctional facilities that in itself suggests to me that they already considered the possibility of keeping him as close as possible to Pietermaritzburg where his trial will commence shortly in July.” Constitutional Court hands down Zuma’s 15-month jail term: 