The Executive Mayor of the City of Johannesburg, Geoffrey Makhubo has been buried at the Westpark Cemetery in Johannesburg. Makhubo died on Friday last week due to COVID-19 related complications. He was 53-years-old. Some of the people who attended the funeral included Gauteng Premier David Makhura, the African National Congress’ (ANC) Amos Masondo, and the Inkatha Freedom Party’s (IFP) Bonginkosi Dlamini. Makhubo was celebrated in song and dance. However, one of his two daughters, Relebohile broke down in tears when she paid tribute to her father. “I will remember you for everything you have given me. And I will love you forever” Relebohile said. Level 4 regulations In keeping with Level 4 COVID-19 lockdown regulations, a small number of people attended the late mayor’s funeral. Some joined in using social media platforms. ANC Treasurer General Paul Mashatile described Makhubo as a man who was devoted to improving the lives of others through education and politics. Mashatile also used the moment to warn the people about the dangers of COVID-19. “His death is a reminder that we have a responsibility to remain vigilant. And do everything necessary to defeat this pandemic. We want everybody to continue complying. We must also wash and sanitise our hands regularly, practice social distancing and avoid crowded places.” Paul Mashatile said. BELOW: Makhubo has been lauded as an experienced public servant  Makhubo became the Mayor of the country’s biggest metro in December 2019. He was also the chairperson of the ANC Johannesburg region. Gauteng Premier David Makhura described Makhubo as a revolutionary who was committed to leading the city that is the heartbeat of the country’s economy. “There is no question that we are hurt and we are hurting. But beyond the tears and sorrow are great memories about the distinct revolutionary personality; who has made a distinct impact as he leaves us. We have heard that legacy amongst his family. He leaves a legacy amongst the communities in Johannesburg.” Makhubo had a long political history, having risen from the ranks of the ANC Youth League, and eventually serving as a member of the mayoral committee for finance under former Johannesburg mayor Parks Tau. Those who worked alongside Makhubo described him as a leader who never took politics personally. His brother, Teboho says he has lost someone who used to look after him. “Every single day of his life looking after me.  He looked after me. So when they say tribute, it hurts me even bad. There is no tribute. For me, my family, my mother, my brother, Geoff was all.” Teboho said. Makhubo leaves behind his wife and two daughters. Geoff Makhubo’s funeral service is in the video below: 