Residents of Mahikeng in the North West have urged law enforcement agencies to be more visible to ensure that people comply with COVID-19 regulations. They say many do not wear masks or keep social distancing. The provincial government has made an undertaking to increase its law enforcement operations. On Saturday, the law enforcement officials took to the streets to check compliance with the COVID-19 regulations. Some residents were ordered to wear their masks. While social distancing remains a challenge and residents say no one seems to make sure that regulations are adhered to. “We see it as a good thing but it should not be the police but everybody should be involved,” says one resident. “If they do it thoroughly everybody will see that COVID-19 is real and the people are dying. They must do it almost every day,” adds another resident. “These people are not doing their job, it seems like they do the job only when the is MEC is here. When he is not around they do not bother,” another community member alleges. Deputy Provincial Police Commissioner, Patrick Asaneng, says: “We will ensure that people, in so far as super spreader events are concerned, are not allowed to continue including sale and consumption of alcohol.” With interprovincial travelling to Gauteng prohibited under alert level 4 regulations, the Department of Community Safety in the North West will maintain its presence on roads leading to Gauteng. North West Community Safety MEC, Sello Lehari, says they will ensure regulations are adhered to. “Together with other provinces we are making sure that we deal with this thing of people moving up and down, curfews are observed. We are very clear and on the ground, nobody will travel beyond restricted time. Nobody will come in and out not doing anything,” says Lehari. Lehari says law enforcers will be deployed across the province to make sure that residents do comply with COVID-19 regulations. COVID-19 Level 4 lockdown | Ban on leisure travel in and out of Gauteng: 