AbaThembu King Buyelekhaya Dalindyebo has come out in support of former President Jacob Zuma. The King believes Zuma should not be jailed due to his health and age. Last week, the Constitutional Court sentenced Zuma to 15 months imprisonment for contempt of court. This was after he ignored its ruling that he continues to testify at the Commission of Inquiry into State Capture despite his claim that Commission Chairperson Zondo was biased. Dalindyebo says matters wouldn’t have escalated to this point if the Chairperson of the State Capture Commission, Deputy Chief Justice Judge Raymond Zondo, recused himself when Zuma made the application. Dalindyebo’s Spokesperson, Prince Langalibalele Mthunzi Ngonyama says Zuma is being treated unfairly. Zuma addresses the media on Sunday, July 4, 2021, at his Nkandla home:  Jacob Zuma has compared his 15-month jail term to a death sentence. He made the comment during a media briefing at his home at Nkandla in northern KwaZulu-Natal on Sunday night. This was after a weekend in which thousands of pro-Zuma supporters defied lockdown regulations and gathered outside his home to protest against the sentence. On Friday, the Constitutional Court agreed to hear former President Jacob Zuma’s application to have his 15-month jail sentence rescinded. Zuma says he is at high risk due to his medical condition and age. “Sending me to jail during the height of a pandemic at my age is the same as sentencing me to death. The death sentence was declared unconstitutional in South Africa in 1995 as a result of my own sacrifices and those of millions of South Africans,” says the former President. He also claims that he was sentenced without trial. However, Chief Justice Mogoeng Mogoeng had directed him to file an affidavit of no longer than 15 pages detailing what would constitute an appropriate sanction should he be found guilty of contempt of court. Instead, Zuma submitted a 21-page letter to Mogoeng saying he would not depose an affidavit as he had been directed. The Constitutional Court will hear Zuma’s rescission application on Monday, July 12. DISCUSSION | Unpacking events that took place in Nkandla over the weekend     Jacob Zuma | Nkandla situation has the potential to do great harm to our country: Prince Buthelezi  