A total of 587 people have appeared in various courts in the West Rand district in connection with last week’s looting and burning of infrastructure in Soweto. This brings the total of suspects facing prosecution to 682. National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) spokesperson in Gauteng, Phindi Mjonondwane says in a statement the suspects are facing charges ranging from public violence, theft, malicious damage to property, the contravention of the Disaster Management Act, housebreaking with intent to commit an offence and robbery. Mjonondwane says bail of between R1000 and R5000 was set for 20 of the suspects, while the rest were remanded in custody until their bail applications can be heard. Patriotic Alliance Mayoral Candidate in the West Rand municipality, Bruce Nimmerhoudt was one of the accused who appeared briefly in court on a charge of inciting public violence. He allegedly urged people to loot through a WhatsApp voice note. Mjonodwane says the case was postponed to 26 July for a bail hearing. “Mjonodwane says the NPA will continue to deal with the influx of dockets related to the past week’s unrest, and is expecting the number of people to face prosecution to increase.” Six arrested for allegedly instigating last week’s unrest:   Number of lives lost The number of people who lost their lives as a result of the violent protests in KwaZulu-Natal and Gauteng has risen to 215. “In KwaZulu-Natal, the situation is now stable and no new incidents of looting were reported. However, three additional deaths have been reported. Ministers and provincial leaders, led by Premier Sihle Zikalala continued with stakeholder and community engagements to calm the tensions within the communities. Therefore, the total recorded deaths to date as a result of this violence is 215,” says Ntshavheni. Ntshavheni says six people have so far been arrested for allegedly instigating the recent riots. She says three people were arrested earlier and have been remanded in police custody while awaiting their bail application. At least nineteen people have died during violence and looting:  