At least five trucks have been set alight on the N3 near Mooi River near the toll plaza in the KwaZulu-Natal (KZN) Midlands. This is the latest in a series of sporadic protests that are taking place across the province. KwaZulu-Natal police cannot confirm that the protest action is linked to sentiments from pro-Zuma supporters. The video below is reporting on the arrest of some protesters  However, former president Jacob Zuma’s daughter Duduzile Zuma-Sambudla, took to social media on Friday to say the protesters were supporters of her father. Operations Manager at the N3 Toll Concession, Thania Dhoogra,  has confirmed reports that three trucks have been set alight on the northbound section and two more trucks are on fire south of Mooi Plaza. “There have also been reports of gunshots, tyres being burnt and stone throwing in the area. Law enforcement is making every effort to bring the situation under control and restore calm in the area. Please contact the 24 hour N3 toll helpline on 0800 634357 to report any emergencies whilst travelling on the N3 toll route,” adds Dhoogra. Below are some of the social media reports on the #ShutdownKZN  The protests continue in KZN. Several trucks were torched on the N3,near Mooi River plaza late last night and the early hours of this morning. It has not been established whether the torching is related to the #ShutdownKZN protests. #sabcnews pic.twitter.com/HoTHmwTHLI pic.twitter.com/UtPsSa16eP — Jayed-Leigh Paulse (@JayedLeigh) July 10, 2021   [Earlier] Scenes at Mooi River plaza last night on the N3 where several trucks were torched. #sabcnews Video supplied. pic.twitter.com/pavMIAficq — Jayed-Leigh Paulse (@JayedLeigh) July 10, 2021   Luxury cars were seen burning on the N3, Mooi River Plaza late last night. Police closed the road immediately. We are still trying to establish whether it has been opened again and we are making our way to the scene. #sabcnews
Video supplied. pic.twitter.com/ZVIfKDd9kx — Jayed-Leigh Paulse (@JayedLeigh) July 10, 2021   #KZNshutdown – N2 Route: Protest issues at Umgababa and also at Amanzimtoti – proceed with caution — Rob Beezy (@TrafficSA) July 10, 2021 