Clinical psychologist Dr Sathasivan Cooper says people who do not have the financial means are executing the violent protests and looting that have rocked South Africa. Cooper says the ongoing inequality in the country has forced people to resort to extreme measures. He has described the current unrest as some of the worst he’s seen in South Africa. “I think we have lost touch with what was intended to be the basic tenets of our democracy a long while ago and what has been developing over time, at least for 2 decades, have been rampant looting of public coughers and entitled from the ruler,” says Cooper. What we see now is the cumulative anger and reaction. People who have been marginalised by democracy” says Cooper. Impact of COVID-19 Lockdown Level 4: Saths Cooper  Alleged perpetrators of unrest appeared in various courts The alleged perpetrators of the unrest that ravaged Gauteng since Monday, appeared in various courts within the Gauteng Local Division (GLD). The National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) in the Gauteng Local Division has made inroads regarding several dockets that were brought to the various lower courts. 18 dockets were placed on the roll at the Johannesburg Magistrates’ Court. At the Johannesburg Magistrate’s Court, 18 dockets from Jeppe, Cleveland, Sandringham, Hillbrow, Yeoville, Booysens, and Johannesburg Central SAPS were placed on the roll. A total number of 111 accused persons facing charges ranging from public violence, housebreaking with intent to commit an offence, theft, contravention of the Disaster Management Act, robbery with aggravating circumstances, and possession of suspected stolen items. All accused were remanded in custody to various dates ranging from 19 July to 27 July 2021 for further investigations and possible bail applications. At the Germiston Magistrate’s Court, five dockets from the South African Police Service (SAPS) with a total number of 10 accused were received. Two of the dockets were not placed on the roll due to insufficient evidence. Three dockets were enrolled with five accused facing charges ranging from theft, attempted murder, and possession of an unlicensed firearm. The attempted murder charge relates to an incident wherein police officers were shot at whilst attending a public violence protest in the vicinity of Germiston. They will remain in custody until 20 July 2021 and 1 September 2021 as investigations continue. One docket from Alexandra SAPS, emanating from the alleged looting at Pan African Mall was enrolled with a total number of 18 accused persons, facing charges ranging from public violence, theft, and contravention of the Disaster Management Act at the Alexandra Magistrate’s Court. All accused were remanded in custody to 21 July 2021 for further investigations and possible bail applications. At the Tembisa Magistrate’s Court, one docket with three accused was enrolled with charges emanating from an incident wherein the accused stormed a garage in the area of Tembisa and forcefully took items and cash. They were charged with public violence and armed robbery. The case was postponed to 20 July 2021 for further investigations and possible bail applications. “The NPA views all these cases in a serious manner and will continue to prosecute those that seek to undermine the rule of law and the safety and security of South African citizens,” Advocate Andrew Chauke said. NPA spokesperson Adv Mthunzi Mhaga discusses the team of prosecutors established to deal with civil unrest cases 