Limpopo health authorities have confirmed the detection of the rapidly spreading Delta variant of the coronavirus in the province. Infections have also been detected in children aged less than 12 months. The authorities believe that the variant might be responsible for the spike of positive cases that are causing the third wave of the pandemic. The COVID-19 cases are rising sharply in the province. The cases have risen from 385 to over 1 700 in the past few days. The province has also seen an increased number of positive cases of children aged zero months to nine years. More than 600 positive cases are of people aged between 15 to 34. Health MEC Phophi Ramathuba is urging people to follow COVID-19 regulations and protocols. In the video below, Limpopo leads in COVID-19 vaccination efforts:  The Professional Educators’ Union, says it has not received reports of any teachers that are refusing to take the jab in Limpopo. More than 46 000 teachers and general workers in the education sector have been vaccinated in the past two weekends. The Health and Education Departments have not reached their target of inoculating more than 61 000 workers. The union’s president, Johannes Motona, says they are happy that many teachers have been vaccinated. Great interest in vaccination “As Professional Educators Union, our members have shown great interest in getting the vaccination as it is for a very long time they have been waiting for it since the vaccination period started we did not have the reports of those who did not want to vaccinate if such reports are there we did not get that information.” In the video below, Limpopo vaccinates teachers:  Meanwhile, Mpumalanga Health Department has so far vaccinated about 30 000 of the 45 000 teachers in the province. It says the rollout programme experienced a few challenges as some teachers were unable to receive their jabs as they were infected with the virus and others were under quarantine. Department spokesperson Dumisani Malamule is confident that all the teachers will be vaccinated soon. “We are hopeful that as time goes on, we will vaccinate those teachers because we are now getting to the second phase of vaccinating teachers.  Remember, there are those teachers who are not on persal who are employed by the SGB, we are now in a process of vaccinating those teachers and private teachers to make sure that everyone is vaccinated.” 