The Professions Body for Supply Chain Management, SAPICS, which represents hundreds of members in the supply and distribution business has advised consumers not to panic buy. This comes in the wake of the ongoing looting at various shopping malls and distributions centres in Gauteng and KwaZulu-Natal since the incarceration of former president Jacob Zuma. President Cyril Ramaphosa said on Monday evening that the country could face food shortages due to the unrest. The President was addressing the nation on the violence and looting. Many consumers have been stockpiling groceries and consumables since early this morning. ‘MJ’ Schoemaker is president of SAPICS. “This is sort of a panic reaction, where people start panicking and they start pilling up. Then the distribution of the goods gets disrupted and it means some have and some don’t. We don’t recommend you do that because you not only take away from others but also cause more disruption in the supply chain. I do agree with President Ramaphosa everyone should stay calm and those shopping centres will find another way to make sure the people get what they need. So stocking up is not a recommendation it’s certainly not.” SAPICS says there will not be a shortage of fuel or food amid false reports on some social media platforms. Shortage of fuel Earlier on Tuesday long winding queues formed outside petrol stations in the greater Durban area of KwaZulu-Natal. Several petrol stations have reportedly run out of fuel, while others have closed for safety reasons. Corner shops and garages that were currently open were inundated with panic buying of essential items. The Consumer Goods Council of South Africa condemns the ongoing looting of business, damage to property, and intimidation  Meanwhile, the Johannesburg Chamber of Commerce has warned that many people could lose their jobs after the looting that targeted shopping malls in parts of the city. Johannesburg Chamber of Commerce president, Shawn Theunissen says, “People are not able to work I think what we seeing on the streets around the looting of people being opportunistic in a situation and I think the ripple effect on the industry is going to be huge. We hearing members where businesses have been looted which has a dire impact on whether they will be able to operate or not. And that just means an increase in joblessness.” Additional reporting by Ditaba Tsotetsi