The South African Social Security Agency (SASSA) in Limpopo says social grant payment at pay points has been suspended due to ongoing protest in different parts of the country. The agency says all the cash transit teams have been ordered not to deliver cash to pay points after a risk assessment was conducted. SASSA’s spokesperson, Norman Kutama, says they won’t be paying cash at pay point until further notice. “We won’t be paying at cash pay point because of the withdrawal of the companies that deliver cash in our communities in the main reason is to ensure that we protect the lives of the vulnerable particularly the elders those who receive their social grant at pay point,” says Kutama. Kutama says beneficiaries can use alternative means to get their grants, like withdrawing from shops and banks. “But for now we are saying to beneficiaries they can try and use other alternative method like visiting their merchants and the banks where they can receive their monies until the situation calms to normality this is a preventative measure that has been taken by the security company that we used to deliver social grant to the communities.” Latest on the situation in KwaZulu-Natal:  Limpopo police spokesperson, Brigadier Motlafela Mojapelo, says no incidents of protest and looting have been reported yet in Limpopo, but declined to comment further. He says the national police can comment on the situation. Meanwhile, national police spokesperson, Brenda Muridili, says they will not comment on the situation because the national intelligence team, consisting of police and SANDF will brief the media about the situation in all the provinces. Brigadier General Mafi Mgobozi on SANDF deployment in Gauteng and KwaZulu-Natal  So far, 489 people have been arrested in KwaZulu-Natal and Gauteng. Of these 166 were nabbed in KwaZulu-Natal while 323 were arrested in Gauteng. Nine people have died since the unrest began, with three fatalities in KwaZulu-Natal and six in Gauteng. Four police officers who were injured while responding to the violent protests, over former president Jacob Zuma’s incarceration, are recovering well. South Africa’s intelligence body, NatJOINTS, that’s working with the police has welcomed the SANDF’s deployment in violence hotspots.