Economic Freedom Fighters members in Mpumalanga have forcefully shut down the Mananga border post in Nkomazi in solidarity with the people of Eswatini. Violent pro-democracy protests are continuing in Eswatini where residents demand electoral reforms. Property including trucks has been damaged and shops looted. Deaths have also been reported. Today Fighters held a peaceful picket at the Oschoek border gate in solidarity with the people of Swaziland. @collensedibe
@MathibeRebecca @EFFSouthAfrica pic.twitter.com/6agOJrbUFo — @Mpumalanga _EFF (@MpumalangaEff) June 30, 2021  The EFF’s Bandi Shongwe says they have decided to shut down the border in support of the call by the people of Eswatini. “We have realised what is happening in Swaziland [Eswatini], the oppression under King Mswati where is oppressing the people of Swaziland [Eswatini]. As we all know that in Swaziland [Eswatini], the unemployment rate is above 76%.  This can tell you that most of the people of Swaziland [Eswatini] are not working. We have seen what is happening on social media in Swaziland [Eswatini], the arrests of people where they stay. So we came here to sympatise with the people of Swaziland [Eswatini].” Eswatini government calls for calm:   Meanwhile, the South African government has raised concern about the deteriorating situation in the Kingdom of Eswatini. In a statement released by the Department of International Relations and Cooperation, the South African government urged the security forces of Eswatini to exercise total restrain and protect the lives of the people of that country. It also called for all political actors and civil society to engage in meaningful dialogue in order to resolve the current political challenges facing the country. DIRCO’s Clayson Monyela expresses the SA government’s view:  ANC weighs in The  African National Congress (ANC) has reiterated its call for good governance and democracy in the country. The party also called for dialogue, the unbanning of political parties and the release of political activists. The protests in Eswatini have affected the economy, with hundreds of trucks transporting goods left stranded at the Oshoek Border Post. The Eswatini government has also imposed a curfew in a bid to quell the situation. 