Deputy State Security Minister, Zizi Kodwa, says the current riots and looting in KwaZulu-Natal and Gauteng are well orchestrated and aimed at causing economic sabotage to destablise the country. He was speaking outside Maponya mall in Soweto. Maponya is one of the shopping malls that have not been looted. Residents of Soweto have come out in their numbers to line up on Chris Hani Road opposite the mall.  Residents of Soweto have formed a human wall in front of the #MaponyaMall. They say it is the closest place where they are able to get all the basic necessities and they have vowed not to allow any #looting to take place. #SABCNEWS pic.twitter.com/ZbLpYff4WH — Tshepo (@tphagane) July 14, 2021  They have vowed to do all in their power to protect the mall from being looted. Kodwa says those that are behind the current situation are trying to create panic in the country. “The instigators are people who are sitting somewhere who want to destabilise this country. That is why today they are cutting what is termed distribution and supply to destroy distribution from Durban to here. So that there may be panic in the country and there be a popular revolt. So there will be no bread, it is a well planned thing by instigators. We [are] getting reports that people are being paid,” adds Kodwa. Some residents in Soweto say no to looting, vow to protect Maponya Mall:  Kodwa says a third force is behind the current unrest in the country. He says there are people who are using the conditions of the poor to enhance their agenda. The deputy minister says investigations are under way to find people behind the violence. He urged told a group of community members in Soweto to desist from looting “We must refuse to destroy our own property. We must say no to looting. We will know who are the people behind this. They know themselves. They are sitting somewhere. They are using poor people. They are using unemployed [people]. They are using children to achieve their ulterior motives very soon we will know them,” he adds. Update from Maponya Mall with deputy State Security minister Zizi Kodwa: 