Community members from Wembezi in Estcourt, in KwaZulu-Natal, have voiced their disappointment over the ruling by the Pietermaritzburg High Court, dismissing former president Jacob Zuma’s urgent application for his stay of arrest. “I don’t think it’s a good decision for Zuma to be arrested and sentenced. It’s not clear to us how he ended in jail. He has been compliant with all other processes. Zuma fought for this country. As a result of the latest ruling against him we will continue seeing unruly behaviour on our communities as people block roads,” says one resident. “Our communities are not in favour with the latest ruling against Zuma because he is old and his health condition is not conducive for him to be held in prison cells considering that there’s Covid-19 now,” says another resident. #JacobZuma tyres being burnt in Inanda in support of the former President. pic.twitter.com/scZ12OJWdX — #TheLordOfTheMedia (@samkelemaseko) July 9, 2021  Huge police deployment on Inanda road some protestors are burning tyres in neighbouring townships. #JacobZuma pic.twitter.com/L67mUDsJ8t — #TheLordOfTheMedia (@samkelemaseko) July 9, 2021  However, other community members in the same area welcomed the ruling. “We are happy with the decision from the Pietermaritzburg High Court which ruled against Zuma. This shows the country’s judiciary system is functioning well and is not biased though they have slapped Zuma with just 15 months in jail for contempt of court and for having violated the country’s Constitutional Court which should be accompanied by heavy punishment.” Traffic severely disrupted on the N3 between Durban and Pietermaritzburg:   Zuma went ahead with his bid for a stay of arrest despite him already being behind bars at the Escourt Correctional Services Facility. He is now pinning his hopes for freedom to a Constitutional Court hearing set down for Monday, where he will be stating his case on why he believes the Apex Court should rescind its 15 months jail sentence against him. The court sentenced the former president for contempt of court last week for disobeying its order for him to continue testifying at the State Capture Inquiry. Court dismisses former president’s application for stay of arrest:   