Some community members in Estcourt in the KwaZulu-Natal Midlands say their calls for former president Jacob Zuma to be released are falling on deaf ears. The area was one of several across the province that was blocked roads and disrupted traffic and access to services. Zuma has begun serving his 15-month sentence for contempt of court. A community member, who spoke on condition of anonymity, says the unrest will continue as long as Zuma is behind bars. “They need to release Zuma, and it puzzles me that Zuma was a freedom fighter for so many years, and then now the democracy he fought for is sending him to jail. The silence of President Ramaphosa is also too loud, and somehow do not see how angry we are. If Zuma is still behind bars, I am afraid things are going to be worse. As things are, some people will be injured when they are forcefully stopped on the roads. Our calls are clear; we want Zuma out of that jail.” Similarly, another resident, Qondukwakha Mayaba, is calling on Ramaphosa to show compassion for Zuma, as he puts it. “We have been part of the struggle as well as the community of Escourt. All we want now is Ramaphosa to release Zuma from prison. He needs to show the unity he always preaches within the ANC and also respects his party. I am still puzzled when did the ANC matters start being solved by the courts. I am wondering if I cast my vote for the ANC; I am voting for courts these days. The voice of the ANC branches are not being heard, but courts are now ruling our party,” says Mayaba. Concerns over escalating violence in the province:  Meanwhile, Minister of Defence and Military Veterans Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula says the army will not be deployed in KwaZulu-Natal because there is no war in the province. She says her department will only intervene when other law enforcement agencies are not coping with the situation. Mapisa-Nqakula says what is happening now is not the responsibility of the Defence Force. “South Africa National Defence Force has not been deployed to KZN. That is not the responsibility of the SANDF. I don’t think we have reached a point where SANDF should be dragged into what is happening in KwaZulu-Natal.  Gauteng police on high alert Gauteng police say they are on high alert following threats that protests happening in KwaZulu-Natal are going to spill over to Gauteng. They say more police officers will be deployed at Maimai hostel in Johannesburg and they are also ready for Monday’s Constitutional Court hearing of former President Jacob Zuma. Gauteng Acting Provincial Commissioner Major General Tommy Mthombeni says their intelligence is on the ground gathering information on a daily basis. “What is happening in KwaZulu-Natal must just indicate that from the South African Police Service, national head office on a daily basis we having the joint operational committee meeting where all the role players are involved but of course in Gauteng linking up with our intelligence. There is information, we deal with that information. We have also directed all the law enforcement agencies in Gauteng and we have put up the plan in ensuring that we deal with the threats.” Fears that protests might spill into Gauteng:   