Support for former president Jacob Zuma continues to stream in. Umkhonto we Sizwe Military Veterans Association (MKMVA) national spokesperson, Carl Niehaus, will address the media later on Friday afternoon on the former president’s sentence and other developments on the matter. And the former deputy president of the African National Congress Youth League, Andile Lungisa, is leading a march in Gqeberha, Eastern Cape. They are taking a petition to the Motherwell High Court over the Constitutional Court’s decision to sentence Zuma to 15 months in prison. He says the petition will also be delivered to president Cyril Ramaphosa and the Judicial Service Commission, among others. This morning as ordinary SA we will deliver a Petition to the Judicial Service Commission, the Parliament of the Republic of South Africa, the National Council of Provinces, the President of the Republic and the Constitutional Court. About the recent judgment by Justice Khampepe — Andile Lungisa (@mrlungisa) July 2, 2021  The group believes that the Constitutional Court expropriated power, which it does not have. More on that in the video below:  This as more supporters continue to descend on Nkandla, in northern KwaZulu-Natal, to show their solidarity with Zuma. They also believe the Constitutional Court’s judgment is unfair. On Tuesday, the former president was sentenced to 15 months imprisonment for contempt of court after he refused to appear before the State Capture Commission. Zuma’s supporters have vowed to prevent law enforcement agencies from arresting the former president. One of Zuma’s supporters, Ntando Khuzwayo from Durban, says the Constitutional Court declared war when it sentenced him to imprisonment. “We think it is senseless to take a 79-year-old man and put him behind bars during such a difficult time when people are dying of COVID and our jails are over populated as you would know. And if they want they arrest him, then they must arrest us. We are ready to be arrested. I mean, I’ve got nothing to lose. I’m offering myself. they can take me instead of him because you cannot arrest a 79- year-old man and put him behind bars and think he will survive. He is going to die in jail. we just entered third wave,” says Khuzwayo. Zuma supporters gather at his Nkandla home:  Zuma’s foundation has also tweeted that the former president will address the nation this weekend. To: ALL MEDIA and the People of South Africa.
President Zuma will definitely address the nation this weekend. pic.twitter.com/HAhi8DbCXM — JGZuma Foundation (Official) (@JGZ_Foundation) July 2, 2021  Meanwhile Acting Chief Justice, Sisi Khampepe, has signed a letter of committal for the former president’s incarceration. According to it, Zuma will be held at the Westville Prison.