President Cyril Ramaphosa says the recent looting and violence in which thousands of people attacked shops and malls in Gauteng and KwaZulu-Natal will likely lead to a further increase in coronavirus infections. “Ultimately, it will deepen poverty and cause even greater hardship for millions of South Africans. The widespread looting of the past week is likely to fuel a further increase of COVID-19 infections.” #ProtectSouthAfrica — Presidency | South Africa  (@PresidencyZA) July 16, 2021  The President addressed the nation on Friday on the latest developments after this week’s looting. He says the people who lit the flames of the massive social disorder will be apprehended and face the full might of the law. Ramaphosa says emergency food relief and other assistance will be offered to those who have suffered loss and damage. “We are in the process of providing immediate food relief to households. We are targeting areas affected by the looting and where people have no access to food.” #ProtectSouthAfrica — Presidency | South Africa  (@PresidencyZA) July 16, 2021  President Ramaphosa says the vaccination programme that has been derailed by the unrest will get back on track as soon as possible. “In the short term, it is essential that we get the vaccination programme back on track as soon as possible, and no effort will be spared in that regard.” #ProtectSouthAfrica — Presidency | South Africa  (@PresidencyZA) July 16, 2021  The President admitted that government was poorly prepared for the unrest that rocked parts of the country. However, he reiterated that government will bring to account those responsible for the mayhem. “We will spare no effort to bring those responsible to justice. And I repeat, we will spare no effort to bring those responsible to justice.” Clean-up operations, often including local people, are now underway at many looted malls and shops in KwaZulu-Natal and Gauteng. “161 malls and shopping centres were attacked during the looting and violence in KwaZulu-Natal and Gauteng,” he says. The President says the attacks were designed to collapse the state and dislodge the government, but have failed because of the resistance of ordinary people and the security forces. Ramaphosa says it will take time for the country to recover from the destruction caused by the riots that have claimed 212 lives. The President’s full address is in the video below: 