President Cyril Ramaphosa has announced that the country will remain on adjusted Alert Lockdown Level four for another 14 days in an effort to contain the spread of the coronavirus. President’s full address:  Gatherings also remain prohibited and the curfew is still from 9pm to 4am. He says schools will remain closed until the 26th of this month. Ramaphosa says the sale of alcohol is still not permitted. He has also announced other adjustments. “We are however making the following adjustment to Alert Level 4 regulations. Restaurants, eateries will be able to operate while observing strict health protocols. Such establishments may not accommodate more than 50 people at a time. Gyms and fitness centres may also open and activities such as agricultural livestock and game auctions will be allowed.” GRAPHIC: Alert Level 4 Lockdown:  Ramaphosa says while he recognises the importance of the alcohol industry to the country’s economy, it is important that it remains prohibited because of its impact on the healthcare sector. “We know that restrictions on alcohol sales reduce the number of admissions in hospitals and emergency rooms. Alcohol abuse is also associated with gatherings and non-adherence to public health regulations.” Violence gripping Gauteng and KZN President Ramaphosa has warned that those involved in acts of violence related to the arrest of former President Jacob Zuma will be arrested and prosecuted. Ramaphosa says while everyone has a right to protest, there can never be justification for violent and destructive action that affects the rights of others. He says it is a matter of concern that some of these acts of violence are based on ethnic mobilisation. Protestors demanding that Zuma be released have torched buildings and vehicles in parts of KwaZulu-Natal and Gauteng. Ramaphosa says this will not be tolerated. “Let us be clear as a nation that we will not tolerate any acts of criminality. We will not tolerate any acts of vandalism. Those who are involved in acts of violence will be arrested and prosecuted. Those found guilty of violating the lockdown regulations will receive the stipulated penalty. This will be done without any fear or favour.”  