Minister of Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs, Dr Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma says the late Queen Mantfombi Dlamini Zulu was a unifier. Dr Dlamini-Zuma says the Queen was a major role player in bringing together different people in South Africa. She says the Zulu nation has lost a true leader. “We had seen her direct the young women towards tradition, education and service to the community. We had seen her protect our young fighting for the safety of women against Gender-based violence and substance abuse. Indeed the heavens have robbed us of an opportunity to witness proving to all as did Mkabayi that as a regent she was going to be very capable.” She adds that the late Queen was the centrepiece that held the amaZulu and Eswatini nations together. “Our faith in MaDlamini in the centrepiece role were not unfounded. We had witnessed that laDlamini play the role of unifier of the two great Nations. We’ve seen laDlamini revive our culture and centered the role of women just as uMkabayi another female regent had done.” Minister Dlamini-Zuma pays tribute:  Institute in Queen’s name People attending the memorial have wiped away tears as Princess Bukhosibemvelo Zulu recalled the painful illness of both her mother and father – King Goodwill Zwelithini. King Goodwill Zwelithini passed on from COVID-19 in March. Queen Mantfombi passed away about a month after him. Princess Bukhosibemvelo says she feels it was foolhardy of her to believe that her mother could survive her father. “I am the true testimony of the pain my mother experienced. I saw the pain my father went through. Today when I say rest in peace Mntanenkosi this is just a statement and concept. My mother’s pain has been intense real and painful to watch. My father went through pain. Today I can’t say I know what happened to my dad.” Princess Bukhosibemvelo says the family wants to develop an institute in the name of her mother, Queen Mantfombi, to honour the work she did to preserve the traditions and culture of the AmaZulu nation. “Unpleasant, unprecedented it has never happened in the Zulu nation’s history and it will never happen in the future to come. We have never felt a long-serving king and within days weeks then lose his recently appointed agent who happens to be his wife.” Princess Bukhosibemvelo says it was foolhardy of her to believe that her mother could survive her father. Princess Bukhosibemvelo Zulu:  Meanwhile, AmaZulu Traditional Prime Minister, Inkosi Mangosuthu Buthelezi, has described the late Regent of the AmaZulu nation as a leader who put the needs of her people first. She was interred in a private ceremony at her palace in Nongoma, northern KwaZulu-Natal. “She accepted an extraordinary responsibility. Her willingness to accept shows the strength of her character. She always put the Zulu people first. It is devastating that we lost her so suddenly. More devastating still, that we recently laid to rest her husband, our King.” Prince Mangosuthu Buthelezi says the Royal family will meet on Friday at 17H00 to discuss Queen’s will.  Memorial service for Queen Mantfombi Dlamini Zulu:  