Western Cape authorities say the province is officially experiencing a resurgence of COVID-19 infections. In the past seven days, there has been a marked increase of 20% in cases across the province, especially in more affluent areas. People are urged to adhere to mask wearing, sanitising and social distancing to prevent a resurgence from becoming a full blown third wave. Western Cape says the third wave of COVID-19 infections is inevitable:  Authorities say the higher numbers are mainly driven by affluent areas and are associated with golf and bowling clubs. Western Cape Premier Alan Winde has urged people to flatten the curve. “Please, take your responsibility very very seriously. Let’s keep flattening this curve, let’s make sure that we are playing our part.  We saw what happened in India, we saw how mass religious gatherings, political gatherings became these super spreader events. We know what they are, we’re moving beyond bushfires into a resurgence that means we must be much more vigilant to keep this curve as flat as possible,” he says. Discussion on how South Africa can avoid a COVID-19 situation similar to India:  Public vaccination rollout The third wave could be smaller than the previous one if people play their part. On Monday, the public rollout of vaccinations will start. From Thursday onward, over 30 000 doses of the Pfizer Biontech vaccine will be allocated to the province on a weekly basis. Just over 200 000 people over the age of 60 have registered for a shot. Head of the Provincial Health Department, Dr Keith Cloete, says 16 000 people living in old age homes have been uploaded onto the system and will be the first to receive the vaccine. “We want to do it in the most organised and the most dignified way over the age of 60. That’s why our first attempts are to old age homes and in the location of where the person finds it in the most dignified way in terms of that so when we do bring people to sites. We must be very mindful, you cannot have 100 people over the age of 60, standing in the sun and standing for three hours in a place; we cannot have that. That’s why we want to be as organised and we stress to people: please come when we ask you to come because we are going to prepare that we will be doing it in the most dignified way that we don’t keep you too long, that we make sure that you are treated in a dignified fashion and it will happen as quickly and as seamlessly for you own health, being mindful that you are at risk of COVID-19 as well,” says Dr Cloete. People are urged not to go to vaccination sites unless they have received an SMS that will tell them when, where and what time they will be vaccinated. These SMSes are expected to be sent out within the next two to three weeks.