Johannesburg Mayor, Geoff Makhubo, will face the third degree on Monday when the commission investigating allegations of state capture resumes. The hearings will start at 10am in Johannesburg. Makhubo will give testimony on ANC money flows during his tenure as the treasurer of the Greater
Johannesburg Region of the party. The state capture commission has heard that numerous payments were made by EOH Africa to the governing party’s bank accounts to help fund ANC accommodation costs, employee stipends, transportation, and merchandise at major party events. ENS Forensics MD, Steven Powell, has accused Makhubo of having written various emails to EOH employee Patrick Makubedu requesting over R6 million in payments to be made to the ANC’s accounts in 2015 alone. The Johannesburg Mayor is also said to have irregularly received payments from EOH Africa through his service providing company named Molwewane Consulting. More information on these claims is in the video below:  The Zondo Commission will also have an evening session. Former Eskom Group CEO, Matshela Koko, will give evidence when the session kicks off at 4pm. Last week, Koko told the commission that he and his family footed their own bill for their trip to Dubai in 2015, not Salim Essa as alleged by other witnesses. Koko says he personally paid R330 000 for the holiday to Indonesia and asked former Eskom official Suzanne Daniels to assist him with visa applications for Dubai and changing flight plans. Koko says he has since been able to get information from Salim Essa’s lawyers, which can prove that Essa did not make a R100 000 payment towards his trip as it has been alleged. “We planned for it, we paid with our money, but we had difficulties with our passports so we could not pm my daughter could not get passport so I went to miss Daniels, because between Ms Daniels and my professional assistant, they never battled with Visas, things happened quickly, I gave all the documents we had to Ms Daniels. We booked our trip to Dubai, we’ve paid for it, don’t need Salim Essa to pay for it. There is the evidence that we paid for it,” he said. More of Koko’s evidence comes after former minister Mosebenzi Zwane’s testimony in the video below: 