The Democratic Alliance (DA) says all its 23 Members of Parliament who are over the age of 60 will be ready for the second phase of the COVID-19 vaccination campaign. The rollout begins on Monday with mass vaccination of people over the age of 60. The DA says it’s important for MPs to take the lead in registering and encouraging the vaccination of citizens against COVID-19. Vaccination registration for persons 60 years open:  DA National Spokesperson, Siviwe Gwarube, says it is important that as many South Africans as possible be vaccinated. “It is absolutely important that as many South Africans as possible get vaccinated, so that we may have a fighting chance of being able to withstand the third wave of infections, which the Minister has now announced and has now confirmed. As the Democratic Alliance, we will be encouraging and have been encouraging our members of Parliament, 23 of them whom in our caucus, are over the age of 60 who will be leading the charge in terms of getting registered so that they get vaccinated. And we urge all South Africans to do exactly that and if you have somebody you know who is over the age of 60, please do so or register them at the nearest health facility. It is absolutely crucial, if we have to beat this third wave of infections, that we get as many people and as many jabs and arms as possible,” Gwarube says. City of Tshwane’s registration drive The City of Tshwane is encouraging the elderly to register for COVID-19 vaccines, with just 10% of the elderly so far registered. Spokesperson for the Executive Mayor, Sipho Stuurman, when the second phase of vaccinations kicks off on Monday, the city will focus on the most vulnerable in the community, including those over 60 years of age, those with co-morbidities and essential workers. “This is a disappointing figure given the fact that we need to protect both our healthcare workers and the elderly to enable us to develop population immunity against the virus. We understand that they may be some fears and anxiety over vaccines due to reported possible side effects. We would like to reassure our residents that the vaccines are safe. The National Department of Health has given the green light for the vaccination process to continue,” he says.