Western Cape Health Minister Nomafrench Mbombo has called on the youth to assist their elderly relatives with the online registration for COVID-19 vaccination. Mbombo says about 90 000 health workers have been vaccinated during the Sisonke Johnson and Johnson vaccination trial in the province. She says there seems to be low registration interest for the 40 000 injections from Pfizer for the elderly in the second phase of the roll-out programme, which starts on Monday. “One must register first before you can be able to be vaccinated. So, you use WhatsApp or go to any of the devices that you can be able to register. There’s a concern that very few people have been registered only 29% out of the 720 000 that have been registered,” says Mbombo. Linda-Gail Bekker gives an update on vaccine rollout with Sisonke and J&J programme:  Vaccination trial centre Meanwhile, the Gatesville Civic Centre in Cape Town which was the remaining facility for the Sisonke Johnson and Johnson vaccination trial has been officially closed. This after vaccinating about 20 000 frontline workers since February this year. The Sisonke trial vaccination centres are closed ahead of the start of the second phase of the roll-out programme. Mbombo says the first phase of the roll-out programme has been a success. “We have to take and make use of lessons learnt from this Phase 1 to use it for Phase 2 which is starting on Monday for the older persons. For example, where you have to phase in things sequential so that you don’t overload the system at one go. That’s why for phase two we are starting in the metro and then for the second week we do the rural areas,” says Mbombo. Sisonke Johnson & Johnson Vaccination Trial centre closes in Cape Town     ELECTRONIC VACCINATION DATA SYSTEM Requirements to register: AGE ﻿// You must be 60 years or older to register for the vaccine. IDENTITY// You must have your ID and medical aid card (if you have one) ready before you register. CONTACT// Put in correct address, cell phone and medical aid numbers when registering. CENTRE// Once registered you will be allocated to the relevant vaccination centre. sabcnews.com | SABC News Channel | SABC Radio news SOURCE: StatsSA, ﻿Finfind, Medium Term Budget 2020 How to register ﻿on the website First, make sure you have internet access. Connect to the internet and go to vaccine.enroll.health.gov.za. The system will send an SMS confirming registration for vaccination. When it is your turn to be vaccinated, you will receive SMS with a date and the place. If you have problems you may contact the COVID-19 Hotline at 0800 029 999. Source: Department of Health You will need a smartphone, a tablet or a computer. (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document));