Former Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa CEO Lucky Montana has told the Commission of Inquiry into allegations of State Capture that some of the properties he is alleged to have received as gratification for the awarding of tenders are in fact financed by a bank. He has denied allegations that manufacturing company Alstom, which received a rolling stock contract in partnership with Gibela from Prasa, bought him a house. Montana has told the commission that there was no Alstom/Gibela tender or contract in 2008. He’s denied allegations that he bought several properties in Johannesburg and Pretoria using the agency’s money. “I can confirm, chair, that my own properties were financed by Absa, a facility to the tune of R10.5 million,” said Montana, to Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo, on Monday. Video: State Capture Inquiry I Lucky Montana denies allegations of buying properties using PRASA money  He says his monthly repayment for the facility at that time was R95 973. “The specifics for the facility as covered was as follows: Saxonworld Johannesburg mortgage bond in the capital amount of R4 675 000. Mortgage bond in the capital amount of R2 million, Pretoria, 161 Waterkloof.” He has also denied allegations that his former lawyer, Riaan van der Walt, bought the properties on his behalf. “This is false. Siyangena Technologies or Riaan Van der Walt did not purchase any properties for me. There are four properties mentioned – one in Rose Street, Waterkloof in Pretoria, two adjacent properties in Brooklyn and another on Empire Road, Sandhurst. They were purchased and owned by Precise Trade – a company which Riaan Van der Walt is the sole shareholder and director. I reject, with contempt, (that) these properties belong to me. There were seven properties in my name. I acquired three of the properties before I joined Prasa in 1998.” Montana allegedly bought two houses worth R25 million in Pretoria and Johannesburg. In 2020, the commission’s investigation gave a timeline into the suspicious property purchases Montana made while he was CEO of Prasa. One of the properties is in Pretoria, Waterkloof, and it was worth R11 million. It is alleged Montana used a shell company named Trade and Invest to purchase the houses through his lawyer Riaan Van der Walt who has since left the country. Montana is expected to continue testifying at the Commission of Inquiry into allegations of State Capture on Tuesday. Video: State Capture Inquiry | The Commission hears PRASA-related evidence: Lucky Montana Pt1   Video: State Capture Inquiry | The Commission hears PRASA-related evidence: Lucky Montana Pt2 