Carl Niehaus who is the spokesperson for the uMkhonto weSizwe Military Veterans Association (MKMVA) claims there are some in the African National Congress (ANC) who are determined to see former President Jacob Zuma, imprisoned. Niehaus made these comments outside the Pietermaritzburg High Court ahead of Zuma’s fraud and corruption trial. The former President and Thales are facing fraud and corruption charges in connection with South Africa’s multi-billion rand arms deal in the 1990s, which is set to begin on May 17, 2021, as the trial date. Niehaus says, “One does get the impression that there are certain people in the ANC who would like President Zuma’s persecution to continue and even to see his imprisonment. Either with regard to this trial or with regard to the issue of the Commission of State Capture.” “I think it is sad because it indicates the deep divisions in the ANC and it also indicates to me that there are certain so-called comrades in the ANC who have sold their souls and hearts to the white monopoly capital,” added Niehaus. Former President Jacob Zuma’s corruption trial  Speaking to the media outside court ANC NEC member Tony Yengeni says they are not apologetic for supporting Zuma. Yengeni says, “He is a long-serving member of the African National Congress. Comrade Jacob Zuma is a former President of this organization called the ANC. His credentials in the struggle are well known and for that reason, we feel some of us very necessary to come and support him to be in solidarity with him so that he must be strong in facing whatever he is facing in the court of this country and we make no apologies for coming here to support Comrade Jacob Zuma.” Meanwhile, the National Prosecuting Authority of South Africa (NPA) says its first witness, Minister Patricia De Lille, is ready to take the stand in the corruption trial of former President Jacob Zuma which is expected to start in the Pietermaritzburg High Court on Monday. De Lille was a whistle-blower in the alleged corruption that unfolded in the multibillion-rand 1999 arms deal and had back then called for parliament to investigate her claims. Zuma’s legal team, however, withdrew from the case last month. pic.twitter.com/4KEzYhd8HH — Carl Niehaus (@niehaus_carl) May 17, 2021  pic.twitter.com/xb5LVWPWl0 — Carl Niehaus (@niehaus_carl) May 17, 2021  Former President Jacob Zuma’s corruption trial set to start