The African National Congress (ANC) veteran Mavuso Msimang says some senior party members who have been charged with serious crimes, including corruption, are the ones who are leaking what is being discussed in the party’s meetings to the media. Suspended secretary-general Ace Magashule, Member of Parliament Bongani Bongo and KwaZulu-Natal ANC deputy chairperson Mike Mabuyakhulu are some of those charged. The governing party’s highest decision-making body instructed all members who face criminal charges to step aside within 30 days or be suspended. Msimang has described the conduct of some senior party members as the last kicks of dying horses. “All this noise, all the leaks and all these things that are happening now are actions of a people who are feeling that the pressure is on them now. They will go to jail and they are trying to cause disturbances. What I like about the ANC is that it has taken firm action which it hasn’t done in the past,” adds Msimang. The audio file below is the full interview with ANC veteran Mavuso Msimang:  Save ANC from imploding Meanwhile, the ANC Special NEC meeting has entered its third and final day with mounting calls for NEC members to go on a retreat or to hold a special conference in a bid to find ways to save the party from imploding. Calls for ANC NEC to go on a retreat to save party from imploding: Magashule and Bongo were booted out of the ANC National Executive Committee’s (NEC) virtual meeting at the weekend. Magashule said he should not have been booted out because he had appealed his suspension. Mabuyakhulu has since stepped aside as one of the ANC’s resolutions requires. The video below is reporting on the removal of Magashule from the NEC’s virtual meeting:  In 2017 the ANC took a resolution that those charged with serious offences should step aside, and thereafter, a number of legal opinions were sought by the party as to the legality of the resolution. But some within the party have warned that the so-called “step aside” resolution can be used in factional battles to deal with political opponents.