The South African Police Service (SAPS) says the Security for the Royal Family in KwaZulu-Natal has not been withdrawn. The statement was made after widespread allegations at the Khangelamankengane Royal Palace that members of the SAPS VIP Protection Unit had been instructed to withdraw. Concerns have also been raised by a number of members in the royal household including AmaZulu Prime Minister, Prince Mangosuthu Buthelezi. National police spokesperson Vish Naidoo says, “Contrary to recent reports circulating in the mainstream and social media platforms, protection for the Royal Family in KwaZulu-Natal has not been withdrawn.” “It is rather unfortunate that information of such protection being withdrawn was made public without the SAPS leadership being approached for verification. The Royal protection is informed by a threat assessment which is reviewed on an ongoing basis,” added Naidoo. Premier Sihle Zikalala @sziks, has moved swiftly to dismiss allegations that @SAPoliceService protection of the Royal Palaces has been withdrawn, purportedly exposing the Royal Family & the newly-appointed successor to the Zulu Kingdom to risk. pic.twitter.com/MBlEliNeLD — KZN Provincial Gov (@kzngov) May 9, 2021  KwaZulu-Natal Premier Sihle Zikalala also dismissed allegations that police protection for the newly appointed AmaZulu King Misuzulu kaZwelithini has been withdrawn. In a statement, Zikalala says that all Royal Palaces are under the protection of the SAPS adding that this security will continue. He further stated that there has been a re-enforcement of security at all the palaces with the Tactical Response Unit (TRT). Prince Mangosuthu Buthelezi confirms that King Misuzulu kaZwelithini is already on the throne  Prince Buthelezi confirms King Misuzulu kaZwelithini has been put on the throne AmaZulu Traditional Prime Minister, Prince Mangosuthu Buthelezi, has confirmed that King Misuzulu kaZwelithini has been put on the throne amid support from the royal family. There was commotion on Friday night at the royal palace in Nongoma in northern KwaZulu-Natal after the will of the late regent Queen’s Mantfombi MaDlamini Zulu’s was read out. She nominated her eldest son, Prince Misuzulu, as the next King of the AmaZulu Nation, but acknowledged this needed the support of the family. Prince Buthelezi says there are processes that still need to be followed. “As the family, as far as the Zulu nation is concerned, the king is already on his throne. There are formalities that should follow. I spoke to the Premier this morning and he said he wanted to see the minutes of what happened last when the will was read. What will follow now will be on the side of government.” Buthelezi says all the royal family members including Prince Mbonisi and Princess Thembi have pledged support to the newly elected king of the Zulu nation. Buthelezi says those royal family members who want to take legal action against the newly appointed King have every right to do so. Buthelezi says he has heard some rumours. “I assume that definitely they may be. In fact, I can say to the media now that I heard rumours that some of them were actually looking for legal advice already a couple of days ago. That would be the work of the court to decide. If they want to dethrone the King already on the throne of course that is not without any precedent. There is no precedent for that but maybe it might happen this time around. I don’t know.” Prince Misuzulu KaZwelithini confirmed as the king of the Zulu nation: 