Member of the Vaccine Committee for the World Health Organisation (WHO) Professor Salim Abdool Karim has weighed in on intensifying public debate on whether it’s a good idea to delay the first and second doses of the vaccine or not. Government started the second phase of its roll-out vaccine programme on Monday, which focuses on people who are aged 60 and above, those who have underlying medical conditions as well as health care workers who were not vaccinated in the first phase of the vaccine roll-out. Prof Karim says contrary to some people’s concerns that there’s reduced protection from one dose, the delay in administering the second dose makes the vaccine more effective. “Where it has become clearest is for the AstraZeneca vaccine and now most recently we’ve seen some new data for the Pfizer vaccine. The recommended gap is 21 to 28 days. If you double that gap, you get a better booster. In fact, if you go even further, you get an even better boosting…” says Karim.  He adds, “Evidence is pointing to increasing the gap between the first and second and you could give more people first doses. The evidence is preliminary that you can increase the gap of the Pfizer vaccine up to three months. Even if you double the current gap, you would get a substantially improved immune-boosting response from the second dose.” South Africa exploring the following COVID-19 vaccines  Not enough vaccine for SA: Mkhize Meanwhile, Health Minister Zweli Mkhize said the numbers of vaccine doses that are currently coming into South Africa will not be enough to last the next two months. He said between now and June the country should have received six million doses. Mkhize said the government was trying to get more vaccines but because of the delays, the deliveries will be received later in the year. South Africa is hoping to vaccinate 16-million people countrywide in the second phase of the COVID-19 vaccination programme. Mkhize explains the process of receiving the Pfizer vaccine:  VACCINATION PROGRESS  South Africa's vaccine roll-out has reached its second phase, where people over 60 & those living with commorbidities are expected to get inoculated.  South Africa's registration progress for COVID-19 vaccines has reached its second phase VACCINATION PROGRESS Vaccination Sites Vaccine types There are a number of vaccination sites across the country, in all nine provinces of South Africa. Each province has at least 5 active vaccination sites. For all sites click here > https://bit.ly/3tNkKgc  The plan is to roll-out Pfizer and Johnson & Johnson vaccines. The Pfizer vaccine is ready for distribution and will be given to people from Monday, 17 May whilst the J&J is still awaiting approval from international bodies. 2 Registration Portal Those eligible to register for vaccination in Phase Two can click here >  https://vaccine.enroll.health.gov.za/#/ First inline will be people over 60 years of age. Vaccination is voluntary. 1 How to Register on EVDS The EVDS (Electronic Vaccination Data System) is where individuals will register to get an appointment for vaccination. After successful registration you will get an SMS notification with a unique code, ﻿the time and place for your vaccination.  4 3 Care for others Friends are really important… We help each other whenever we can, so it’s a two-way street, and supporting them uplifts me.’  Caring for others is often an important part of keeping up relationships with people close to you. It can even bring you closer together. 7 Ask for help None of us are superhuman. We all sometimes get tired or overwhelmed by how we feel or when things don’t go to plan.  If things are getting too much for you and you feel you can’t cope, ask for help. Your family or friends may be able to offer practical help or a listening ear. Local services are there to help you. 6 Drink sensibly We often drink alcohol to change our mood. Some people drink to deal with fear or loneliness, but the effect is only temporary.  When the drink wears off, you feel worse because of the way the alcohol has affected your brain and the rest of your body. 5 Caring for others is often an important part of keeping up relationships with people close to you. It can even bring you closer together. Accept who you are We’re all different. It’s much healthier to accept that you’re unique than to wish you were more like someone else.  Feeling good about yourself boosts your confidence to learn new skills, visit new places and make new friends. Good self-esteem helps you cope when life takes a difficult turn. 10 Number of vaccines acquired South Africa has acquired 12 million vaccine doses from the COVAX facility. 9 million vaccine doses from Johnson & Johnson, whilst Pfizer has committed 20 million doses to the country. MILLION doses 41 Talking can be a way to cope with a problem you’ve been carrying around in your head for a while.  Just being listened to can help you feel supported and less alone. And it works both ways. If you open up, it might encourage others to do the same. Talk about your feelings 9 (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document));