The African National Congress’s National Working Committee (NWC) has instructed that party members who refuse to step aside within the prescribed 30 days be served with suspension letters. The 30-day period expired at the end of last month. The NWC reaffirmed the party’s National Executive Committee (NEC) decision that all members who have been charged with corruption or other serious crimes step aside within 30-days. [JUST-IN] #ANC NWC resolves that all leaders charged with criminal offences [Fraud,corruption,money laundering and racketeering] should step aside and if they refuse they be suspended. #sabcnews pic.twitter.com/oVMPgRgolQ — #TheLordOfTheMedia (@samkelemaseko) May 4, 2021  [JUST-IN]@ANCKZN Deputy Chairperson Mike Mabuyakhulu has stepped aside in position in the KZN province. Mabuyakhulu also appearing at the #StateCaptureInquiry tomorrow #sabcnews pic.twitter.com/LaJhNH1GEI — #TheLordOfTheMedia (@samkelemaseko) May 4, 2021  The NWC has concluded its meeting at Luthuli House in Johannesburg. ANC Secretary-General Ace Magashule is among those who have been asked to step aside. The affected members must update the relevant secretariat on a monthly basis regarding progress with their cases, the NWC said via a statement this afternoon. ANC NWC meets over the party’s step-aside resolution:  NEC to meet this weekend The Saturday gathering will be the first in-person interaction of the highest decision-making body of the governing party in between conferences since the pandemic. Party spokesperson Pule Mabe says the NEC will finally seal the fate of those affected at the end of its meeting next Monday. Meanwhile, an ANC grouping calling itself the ANC Cadres Summit says the time has come for the party to cleanse itself of all factionalism and tackle the challenges it is facing. It has called for the NEC to be dissolved and replaced with National Task Team. Mabe says issues should be raised within the structures of the organisation. File video: ANC NWC processing lists submitted of those implicated or charged with wrongdoing:  