Democratic Alliance (DA) leader John Steenhuisen says they are ready for the October 27 local government elections and the party does not need a postponement of the poll. This comes amid calls from some opposition parties for the elections to be postponed as the COVID-19 pandemic continues. The DA is hoping to expand on the success it achieved in the local government elections almost five years ago when it – with the assistance of other opposition parties – took a number of Metros. Steenhuisen was speaking at the party’s virtual rally. He says the party’s opponents have been caught napping. “Our opponents are doing their best to wiggle out of it. They are either simply not prepared for this campaign or they fear what voters will say to them on the day and so they talk about postponing and they make excuses but we won’t have none of that. The DA is marching confidently towards the 27th of October, we are ready, we are ready for the challenge, we are ready for the contest and we started our preparations a long time ago.” The IEC this week announced that Former Deputy Chief Justice, Dikgang Moseneke, will be leading an inquiry to assess if conditions for free and fair elections currently exist in the midst of the COVID-19 pandemic. Steenhuisen emphasises the power of voting for the DA Steenhuisen says voting for the DA is more powerful than throwing a thousand stones. He said his travels across the country showed him that people are angry about local government failures. Steenhuisen says communities are using service delivery protests to motivate. “There is another form of protest that is guaranteed to get better results and that is the protest you register with your vote. That simple little action of drawing a cross in a block on your ballot paper carries more power and brings more change than a thousand tyres burnt and a thousand stones thrown and that is why this year is so critical.” He adds: “Millions of South Africans that have been left to fend for themselves have a small but powerful window of opportunity to say no that is not good enough!” DA confident it will win the Local Government Elections:  