The body of Lindani Myeni is en route to his hometown in Richards Bay, Kwazulu-Natal, following a moving hand-over ceremony at OR Tambo International Airport in Kempton Park on Saturday. Myeni’s remains arrived at the airport this morning after the former South African rugby player died, allegedly at the hands of police in Honolulu, Hawaii. He was shot dead in an alleged scuffle with police, who were responding to reports of a home burglary. Myeni’s body was met by his grieving family and government officials. Some broke down when the coffin was wheeled out of a cargo terminal, struck by the reality of the death of their son, brother, father and husband. Lindani Myeni’s body en route to his hometown KZN: Grandmother Pastor Busi Nhlek says, “It sends us back to the first day when we heard about the news. I just want to say these words to the US government, and the US people, we are not painted black, we are black. It’s not a mistake that we are black, it is our nation. It’s in our DNA.” Social Development Minister Lindiwe Zulu called for swift justice.  Zulu says, “We call on the US government to provide a full report as speedily as possible and to conduct a thorough investigation on this tragedy, which we condemn in the strongest terms. Those found guilty should face the full might of the law and take accountability for this cruel act.” Prayer service for the late Lindani Myeni: Social development minister, Lindiwe Zulu, is among the dignitaries accompanying the Myeni family. #sabcnews #LindaniMyeni pic.twitter.com/GW7hqeirsH — Mbalenhle Mthethwa (@MbalikaMthethwa) May 1, 2021  KwaZulu-Natal MEC for Social Development Nonhlanhla Khoza has also raised concerns about the slow pace at which Hawaii police are releasing information. They claim Myeni followed a woman home and charged at them when approached. Khoza says, “It is a sad indictment on Americans that their country continues to be associated with the senseless murder of black people, by their police. The callous murder of our son has, if anything, diminished our hope that there will be a sudden change in police attitudes after the globally reported murder of George Floyd.” 911 tape released The Honolulu Police Department has released the 911 tape that initiated a sequence of events that would result in the death by police shooting of Myeni on April 14th. A distraught woman – speaking in broken English can be heard on the phone sounding at times distraught and terrified as the dispatcher seeks to understand what is going on in the home. Honolulu police Department releases 911 tape detailing events leading to Myeni’s shooting: A memorial service will be held on Thursday. Myeni will be laid to rest next Saturday. The prayer service for Lindani Myeni at O.R Tambo International Airport has begun. #sabcnews #LindaniMyeni pic.twitter.com/28mOQ3gYAR — Mbalenhle Mthethwa (@MbalikaMthethwa) May 1, 2021 