African National Congress (ANC ) MP Bongani Bongo has joined suspended Secretary-General Ace Magashule in being ejected from the virtual ANC NEC meeting.  BREAKING NEWS: Bongani Bongo kicked out of ANC NEC virtual meeting pic.twitter.com/FJ3QBx5O9c — SABC News (@SABCNews) May 8, 2021   Magashule was kicked out of the meeting earlier today after joining in the morning. Magashule, who faces fraud and corruption charges linked to the Free State asbestos project, was suspended earlier this week after failing to step aside as required by recent party resolutions. The reason for Bongo being removed from the NEC meeting is not clear at this stage. He faces fraud and corruption charges related to Mpumalanga land deals. Ace Magashule kicked out of the party’s virtual meeting  Media bias in corruption reporting Meanwhile, political analyst Xolani Dube says media in South Africa is selective in reporting when it comes to corruption and allegations against some political figures. In an exclusive interview with the  South African Broadcasting Corporation (SABC ), Magashule also claimed that some journalists had been captured. Dube says many political leaders in the country have been accusing the media, saying they are not representing the true issues in society. Dube says the ANC has not been consistent in dealing with political rivalry in the party. Dube says the ANC appears to be ‘losing the plot.’ “It is such a contradictory that he go back and consult with who were chased out of the ANC because it is the same ANC that told us that Thabo Mbeki is someone who is not desirable, Jacob Zuma is not a desirable person to proceed. Kgalema [Motlanthe] you are not fit to lead us, we want Cyril [Ramaphosa]. How can they say the incumbent secretary must go back and seek counselling  from the people who have been disposed of by the same organisation?” ANC NEC Meeting | Xolani Dube gives analysis:  Step aside resolution will help ANC renew itself ANC Northern Cape Chairperson Zamani Saul says the party’s step aside resolution for those facing corruption charges is meant to help the party renew itself. Saul says the resolution that was taken during the ANC’s 54th national conference does not mean those who step aside are already regarded as guilty but that it aims to help the party regain the trust of voters. His comments come after  Magashule was suspended after he failed to step aside within the required 30 days. Saul was speaking during the Frances Baard Regional conference. “It can’t be that I continue to be the face of the ANC that professes to fight corruption but I am supposed to go to court for corruption. I am sure comrades can see the contradiction. Branches of the ANC were not mistaken when taking that decision. Saying we are an organisation that commits now to organisational renewal to improve our image, it can’t be that we say we are fighting corruption and people who are the face of the ANC are queuing to go to court.”