The African National Congress (ANC) has concluded its much anticipated National Working Committee (NWC) meeting on Monday afternoon. The meeting of the NWC responsible for the day-to-day running of the governing party was called to consider reports from provinces of the names of members who are affected by the step-aside resolution. The NWC will compile a consolidated report that will be sent to the National Executive Committee (NEC), which is expected to hold its regular meeting on Saturday. The time is running out for ANC members facing criminal charges to step down or face suspension. Although they were expected to do that by last Friday, they still have a grace period as the NEC is to finally decide on their fate after its regular sitting which starts this weekend. Earlier, NEC member Ronald Lamola said there is no need to hold an NEC meeting to plead with people who have done wrong to step down. #ANC NEC&NWC Ronald Lamola member says “charlatans” who move up and down the country raise conspiracy issues with the Judiciary and all hire white lawyers.”When they go to court they don’t raise these issues,comrades mustn’t do naughty things &hope to mobilize sympathy” #sabcnews pic.twitter.com/Kq3xBLb9Wg — #TheLordOfTheMedia (@samkelemaseko) May 3, 2021  The Saturday gathering will be the first in-person interaction of the highest decision-making body of the governing party in between conferences since the pandemic. Party spokesperson Pule Mabe says the NEC will finally seal the fate of those affected at the end of its meeting next Monday. Meanwhile, an ANC grouping calling itself the ANC Cadres Summit says the time has come for the party to cleanse itself of all factionalism and tackle the challenges it is facing. It has called for the NEC to be dissolved and replaced with National Task Team. Mabe says issues should be raised within the structures of the organisation. It appears those expected to step-aside will not go down without a fight. Those expected to step down include party secretary-general Ace Magashule, MP Bongani Bongo, KZN Deputy Provincial Chairperson Mike Mabuyakhulu, former eThekwini Mayor Zandile Gumede, and Limpopo provincial treasurer Danny Msiza, among others. ANC NWC processing lists submitted of those implicated or charged with wrongdoing:  