The African National Congress (ANC) is now focusing on disciplinary committee hearings following letters of appeal from some of its members regarding their suspensions. This comes as a virtual meeting of the party’s NEC continued without suspended Secretary-General Ace Magashule and MP Bongani Bongo. In a leaked audio recording of the meeting, Limpopo ANC Provincial Chairperson Stan Mathabatha is heard, supported by former President Thabo Mbeki, on the need to have a retreat to deal with the challenges facing the ANC. ANC warns those leaking information The ANC has warned that any member of the party who leaks information to the media or the public without authorization could be found guilty of misconduct. The party has released a statement in reaction to the leaking of audio on Twitter of the virtual NEC meeting which is taking place this weekend. ANC spokesperson Pule Mabe says the party is concerned about the leaking of internal discussions. There are those who feel as if the National Disciplinary Committee is dragging its feet in addressing the issues of factionalism within the party particularly Bongo and Magashule. Issues of discipline within the ANC do take time but also it comes at a time when for the first time since the dawn of democracy, that a sitting official of the governing party is essentially suspended. SABC News’ senior political reporter Samkele Maseko has more:   Situation inside the ANC highly unpredictable: Analyst Political analyst Xolani Dube says the situation inside the ANC is highly unpredictable. A few days ago Magashule was served with a suspension letter and he in return suspend the ANC president, Cyril Ramaphosa. Dube says what currently is happening at the ANC, no longer surprises the people of South Africa. “We have to accept that ANC has turned itself into a madhouse so anything is expected. We are no longer surprised and for the past four days, we have seen a kind of madness in form of letters. From the secretary, deputy secretary and so forth. And so we as the public we have become numb to these kinds of communication that the ANC always displays in front of us.” Xolani Dube’s ANC NEC analysis:  