The Executive Secretary at the Council for the Advancement of the South African Constitution, Lawson Naidoo says the claims of tender irregularities in the Health Department pose a serious test of the state’s commitment to combating corruption. Naidoo says the matter is a very strong signal to the South African public. “This is a very strong signal to the South African public that this is a serious matter. “The issue of the integrity of the state, how serious they are about fighting corruption. We are going to get a report from the Deputy Chief Justice in three months’ time outlining how we deal with state capture. And we are only dealing with issues when they are staring at us like this. Is there any hope that the recommendations of the Zondo Commission will actually be before the court of law?” Pressure from DA Pressure is mounting from the Democratic Alliance (DA) and others for Health Minister Dr Zweli Mkhize to step down or be removed by President Cyril Ramaphosa. Mkhize has said that an investigation into allegations over irregular multi-million rand contracts by his department has found that its dealings with communications company, Digital Vibes, were irregular. National Health Department briefs media on the irregular Digital Vibes contract:  The Special Investigating Unit is probing allegations that the Department of Health had paid Digital Vibes R150-million for services related to the National Health Insurance (NHI) and the government’s response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Mkhize says the monies paid to Digital Vibes were found to be fruitless and wasteful expenditure. Alleged irregular contract between Health department and Digital Vibes:  Veracity of Digital Vibes irregular tender Political analyst Tessa Dooms has raised questions over the veracity of claims made by Mkhize after he denied any involvement in the awarding of the irregular multi-million rand contract by his Department. Mkhize’s former personal spokesperson, Tahera Mather, and former personal assistant, Naadhira Mitha, are reported to control the company, Digital Vibes, although the two are not listed as directors. Dooms says it is hard to believe Mkhize as he contradicted himself in the press briefing. “It’s very hard to believe him when he contradicted himself in the press briefing itself. He said he didn’t know up until a point until he came to know that she was involved when she was setting up meetings with him in order to do the work that was being paid for; so, he clearly became aware at some point. But of course, it would be highly irregular for that level of work to be done in his office and he not have a clue about it.” – Additional reporting by Risha Maduray.