The case against alleged underworld kingpin Nafiz Modack and anti-gang unit policeman, Ashley Tabisher, has been transferred to the Blue Downs regional court. The pair made a brief appearance in the Bishop Lavis Magistrate’s Court on a charge of corruption and money laundering. It’s alleged that Modack offered Tabisher R10 000 and a cellphone in exchange for information on when police would carry out operations against him. Modack also faces a slew of other charges including conspiracy to commit murder, attempted murder and extortion. He is set to apply for bail on consolidated charges in the Blue Downs regional court. This follows multiple charges brought against him in recent weeks since his arrest. Among them, the attempted murder of Cape Town attorney, William Booth, the 2019 attempted murder of anti-gang unit member Charl Kinnear as well as kidnapping and extortion of an investor, Sameer Vallie. In court on Monday, Modack’s lawyers said his client was being mistreated at the secret location where he’s being held. “First, Mr Modack complained about sleeping on a concrete floor and that affected his kidneys and also complained about Halaal food not being served in prison. He wanted his bail application to be done today which was a bit strange because you cannot separate the two bail applications with the same accused,”  says NPA Spokesperson, Eric Ntabazalila. Outside court, Modack’s supporters put up placards questioning why the state plans on opposing bail. Supporter, Safia Mohammed, claim’s he’s a humanitarian. “We are here to know why Modack is not out and yet. Remember, every flower has a root and we want to know who the root is, that’s keeping Modack in, why don’t they want Modack to come out? What is the reason?” Another supporter, Yumna Williams, says Modack does good in their community. “The feeding didn’t stop. The feeding will continue, with him or without him, but it’s not the same. So, we have come out here to support him in feeding, because a hungry child is basically a sad child,” says Williams. Modack and Tabisher are expected to appear in the Blue Downs regional court on Friday, with others linked to the cases, including Zane Killian, Jacques Cronje, and Ricardo Morgan. A date for a bail application is expected to be set on Friday.