Members of some of the largest French companies in the world gathered in Midrand on Friday, alongside the Minister of Diversity, and French MPs to celebrate the French South Africa skills bale and transfer. French President Emmanuel Macron is visiting South Africa for the first time. Against the backdrop of this, a French skills initiative was launched, with large multinational companies training young people in technical solutions, energy and didactic equipment, among others. French President Emmanuel Macron’s first state visit to South Africa:  President @CyrilRamaphosa hosts French President @EmmanuelMacron at Union Buildings. The visit is aimed at strengthening Strategic Partnership between the two countries, which is substantiated by a number of bilateral agreements in various areas of cooperation. #FranceInSA pic.twitter.com/RUWOVDghNE — South African Government (@GovernmentZA) May 28, 2021  Multinationals like L’Oreal, Total Energy were represented and they pledged their support for Africa. France’s Minister of Diversity emphasised that diversity adds to a company’s bottoms line. The visit comes as South Africa grapples with low economic growth and high youth unemployment, which economists say exacerbate the challenges that the country is facing. President Macron embarks on state visit to SA:   French multinationals based in Africa have expressed optimism about their prospects on the continent. There are over 400 French companies in South Africa employing over 6 500 people. That figure is set to grow with multinationals seeing large returns from the continent. The CEO of a large construction firm says in order to be responsible and efficient, there must be a skills transfer. There is a sense of optimism among companies and bodies based in South Africa about business on the continent. The optimism extended to a French cabinet member, Elisabeth Moreno, who spoke about the importance of the continent and the reason for the French President’s visit. -Reporting by Nzinga Qunta