The South African Broadcasting Corporation (SABC) says it intends to proceed with a process to evict all illegal occupiers of SABC properties in Mahikeng, in North West. This after the illegal occupiers failed to restore possession of the Bop TV flats and other SABC properties back to the SABC, as ordered by the North West High Court. The SABC‘s Group Executive: Corporate Affairs and Marketing, Gugu Ntuli, says they will continue with the eviction process. “Effectively, the occupants had to leave, they had to vacate the blocks of flats in Mafikeng. The occupants obviously haven’t done so and according to the ruling, we actually indicated that if this was not pursued, if the occupants remained in the building, we would then have to proceed with an eviction process.” SABC disposes non-core assets: The SABC had decided to dispose of some of its non-core assets as part of its turnaround strategy. It included more than 20 houses and 60 flats that had been rented out. In April, Sanco’s Provincial Secretary Khumalo Molefe said they would not allow the SABC to take any decision “without public participation.” “We have learnt about the unfortunate and unjust action by the SABC based somewhere in Auckland Park, in Gauteng, to sell our property here in Mahikeng in the North West without any public participation. We reject this attempted hijacking of our public property by the SABC and we will not only reject it, they will find us in the building. We will defend these buildings and we know how these buildings came about. It was because of the contributions of our parents from the University of the North West to every building. It is because our parents contributed through their taxes through their blood and sweat that you find in the province. We will not stand by the side and allow the SABC, sitting somewhere in Auckland Park, to take the decisions about our public property.” SABC Spokesperson Mmoni Seapolelo, said at the time, the public broadcaster would continue with the auctioning of its non-core assets. “The SABC will in May 2021, in line with section 52 D of the Public Finance Management Act for the disposal of non-core assets, hold a public auction of residential property which were rented by SABC employees and none employees. In order to ensure a fair and transparent process and as part of the recommendations of this process  a public auction will be held in May 2021.” Community members hijack flats belonging to the SABC in Mahikeng: 