The Department of Health has noted a “worrying trend of increasing numbers of detected cases in a number of districts.” This comes at a time when the country is preparing itself for the forecast third wave of the coronavirus (COVID-19). According to the statement released on Thursday evening, while three provinces –  the Free State, Gauteng, Northern Cape and North West  – “are of particular concern”, every province, with the notable exception of Eastern Cape, has at least one district of concern. Since the last reporting period, the country has recorded 2 149 new COVID-19-related cases, taking the cumulative number of cases to 1 590 370. This is the second day in a row the country is recording more than 2 000 cases. There have also been 63 COVID-19 fatalities, bringing the death toll to 54 620. The most number of the latest fatalities come from the Free State with 21 deaths, followed by Gauteng 17, the Western Cape at 6, KwaZulu Natal and the Northern Cape at 5 and Mpumalanga at 6. Below is the latest SA stats: 63 2 149 10 805 804 23 845 1 511 905 1 590 370 1 566 525 06 May 2021 54 620 (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document)); The Department of Health says other provinces can learn from the measures implemented by the Eastern Cape to mitigate the impact of the virus in the tournament. “This reinforces the message that we can all play our part to ensure that these rise in infections do not turn into a third wave. We all know what it takes to keep the coronavirus at bay – strict wearing of masks, sanitizing and avoiding crowded gatherings,” says Mkhize in a statement. The Eastern Cape Health Department says their COVID-19 tracers are working around the clock to track down any possible contacts to the 14 crew members that tested positive for the coronavirus on a vessel from India. The vessel docked at the Port of Ngqura to transfer the infected crew members off the ship. The ship was en route to Kenya. Mkhize says scientists are working hard to examine samples taken from patients. “One of the sequences of a traveller has been completed and it turned out to be the B.1.351 variant – the one that is circulating here in South Africa. This tells us that one cannot assume that a traveller carries any particular variant and this is why we insist on being guided by the science,” says Mkhize. “Having said that, we do share the concerns of our citizens that we could import a variant of concern that can drive another wave. For this reason, the NCCC is deliberating on the issue of border control and final determinations will find expression in Cabinet and be communicated to the public accordingly.” President Cyril Ramaphosa says the variant of the COVID-19 virus that is raging in India is very worrying.
He was answering questions during a hybrid sitting of the National Assembly where he was grilled by opposition, mainly, on the country’s vaccination procurement and the roll out of vaccination programme. Ramaphosa also says government is still considering whether a travel ban against India should be imposed based on research by the national corona virus command council. “We are looking at scientific research before making decision – what exactly the variant is about. Also, how do we respond? Many people have said impose a ban. But we are examining the efficacy of this process.” While awaiting a report from the National Coronavirus Command Council, government will soon make decisive decisions on what measures to take.