The ANC has urged South Africans to stand in solidarity with the people of Palestine. Scores of ANC supporters, led by the party’s Deputy Secretary-General Jessie Duarte, have been protesting outside the Israeli embassy in Pretoria. Over 200 people have been killed and more than 50 000 others displaced in the recent conflict between the Israeli military and Palestinian militant group Hamas in Gaza. SASCO demands Israel Embassy closure:  ANC anti-Israeli campaign organiser Nomvula Mokonyane says the United Nations must act against Israel. “The UN must act and take decisive action against Israel. We need the SA government to effect drastic action that will put the Israeli government to affect and people of SA to remember that our freedom came through international solidarity and, therefore, we must remember the Palestine women and children and people of Palestine who are suffering. We don’t trust the commitment that was made by Israeli because they always do this and unexpectedly come in and attack innocent peace-loving people of Palestine.” If you tremble in indignation at every injustice then you are a comrade of mine – Ernesto Che Guevara. We need more mobilisation and more international pressure against Apartheid Israel. #FreePalestine #ANCInSolidarityWithPalestine pic.twitter.com/drIWO6t0p5 — David Makhura (@David_Makhura) May 25, 2021  Mobilising support for Palestine The ambassador of Palestine in South Africa, Hanan Jarrar, has urged the international community to endlessly mobilise support for the people of Palestine. She was addressing members and supporters of the ANC tripartite alliance outside the Israeli Embassy in Pretoria. The protestors are calling for the boycott of all Israeli products in South Africa and the continent. They believe this would help bring Israel to its senses and end attacks on Palestinians. Palestinian Councillor to SA speaks about the Israel-Palestine conflict:  Jarrar says the Palestinian’s hope in defeating Israeli will come from the efforts of South Africans and the international community. “You have to be proud South Africans. We suffered seven decades of oppression characterised by apartheid regime and forceful displacement of indigenous people from their home and land. Now with your support, this has to stop.”