African National Congress (ANC) members from 35 branches of the Mahikeng sub-region in the North West have condemned the immediate temporary suspension of Secretary-General Ace Magashule from the party. His suspension is effective from 3 May. Magashule is currently out on bail charged with corruption, fraud, and money laundering related to the Free State asbestos tender that was issued during his tenure as the province’s premier. ANC members in the Mahikeng sub-region converged just after the news that Magashule had been suspended. Members have vowed to support Magashule through thick and thin. A youth league leader in the Ngaka Modiri Molema region, Koketso Moiloa, has blamed the ANC President for Magashule’s suspension. ” We are very happy of the leadership of comrade Ace Magashule, a sitting Secretary-General of the ANC. The ANC constitution can not be above the constitution of the country. It can’t be. Now you can’t suspend a person on the basis of allegations. Comrade Cyril Ramaphosa that is leading the NEC and the ANC, you are not ANC. You are leading the NEC of the ANC elected by us, and it clearly shows that in order for us to respond to the national question of what needs to be done, Cyril [Ramaphosa] must be out.” Another ANC member, Thedous Nebe, has called on the NEC to convene a physical meeting this coming weekend, as they intend to demonstrate in a show of support to both Magashule and former ANC chairperson in the North West Supra Mahumapelo. “The NEC must convene its meeting physically because we want to be there where they will be convening so that we can demonstrate as the entire country our support to comrade Ace Magashule, our support to comrade Supra Mahumapelo there.” ANC’s Veteran’s League Snuki Zikalala says Magashule’s suspension is a milestone for the ruling party:  SANCO  in Free State also condemns Magashule’s suspension SANCO in the Free State has also condemned the temporary suspension of Magashule’s membership. SANCO says the decision will be challenged in courts. It has referred to the step aside rule as the DA clause and acts of white monopoly capital. Magashule has been prohibited from mobilising party structures, any other organisations or individuals. Free State SANCO spokesperson Gift Poli says they are making a call for an early national conference to remove what they call counter-revolutionaries. “The implementation of this DA clause is so unfortunate. It is the instruction by the Ruperts of this world, it is an instruction by the monopoly capital to ensure that all those people who are fighting for radical economic transformation that are eliminated and they are removed out of the ANC. So we are going to make sure that we encourage all the people affected by this DA clause to go to court and challenge it, but we are not going to tire. We will make sure that we emerge very strong is just a temporary setback.”