The Western Cape Government will officially launch its Phase 2 mass coronavirus vaccination programme at the Brooklyn Chest Hospital in Milnerton on Monday. Premier Alan Winde, Health Minister Nomafrench Mbombo, and Head of Health Keith Cloete will join those who are 60 years and older at vaccine centres. Winde says their message to residents is that vaccines are safe, rigorously tested and proven to provide protection against serious COVID-19 illness and death. He also encouraged residents to register for the jab. Various centres, including the Brooklyn Chest Hospital, Helderberg Hospital, Mitchells Plain and Khayelitsha Hospitals have been identified as vaccine centres for the second phase of the roll out plan. Over 4 000 senior citizens expected to get their COVID-19 vaccine on Monday:  Clicks receive approval to offer 47 vaccination sites nationally The country’s largest retail pharmaceutical Clicks has announced that it has received approval from the national Department of Health to offer 47 vaccination sites nationally – with a further 520 waiting approval. The pharmaceutical giant has made the announcement on the eve of the start of the second phase of the COVID-19 rollout programme. It will target people who are over 60 and those with underlying medical conditions. Clicks says its frontline health care workers have received training on how to administer the COVID-19 vaccine. Clicks says they will be offering the vaccinations as per the Department of Health protocol starting with Pfizer vaccine. Individuals who have registered on the Department of Health’s Electronic Vaccination Data System (EVDS) online portal will receive a text message with a unique vaccination voucher. This is to be presented at the vaccination site along with their IDs and medical aid details. Clicks says they are ready and willing to support the department of health in vaccinating citizens. Meanwhile, Dis-Chem earlier said they have the capacity to vaccinate 40 000 people a day through their facilities and have negotiated with shopping malls to open up centres and spaces where they can accommodate people, according to the department of health’s regulations. Clicks and Dis-Chem to support government with Phase 2 vaccine rollout:   (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document));