The Commission of Inquiry into State Capture Chairperson, Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo has instructed former South African Airways (SAA) board Chairperson, Dudu Myeni, to appear before the Commission at 2 PM on Tuesday afternoon. Myeni failed to appear before the Commission of Inquiry into State Capture on Tuesday morning as expected. Myeni’s legal team requested for a postponement. Video: Dudu Myeni’s legal representative advocate Buthelezi asks for postponement at the Commission of Inquiry into State Capture  Earlier, evidence leader, Advocate Kate Hofmeyr urged Commission Chairperson to take action against the former South African Airways board Chairperson. “Now that is a reference to the summons that was issued by this Commission in terms of the Commission’s Act, chair. The public is now aware it is a criminal offence not to appear when there has been service of summons without sufficient cause.” “Myeni has not appeared today (Tuesday). She indicated recognition of receipt of the summons. It was a considerate effort for the commission to ensure summons was effected,” explains Hofmeyr. She appeared before the commission virtually in 2020 when she revealed the name of a witness. This after the Commission Chairperson had ordered that the name must not be revealed. During her 2020 appearance at the commission, the former South African Airways board chairperson refused to answer any questions claiming that the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) would use them against her. Video: State Capture Inquiry – 25 MAy 2021  ‘Myeni’s failure to appear before commission not tantamount to defiance’ Myeni’s lawyer advocate Nqabayethu Buthelezi earlier told the commission that his client’s failure to appear before it was not tantamount to defiance but rather what he termed miscommunication. He said she had received the summons requesting her presence at the commission but a response from the commission on certain questions she wanted answered came late. The commission chairperson  has ordered Myeni through her legal team to find a place and computer where she can log in virtually to give evidence. “Whatever is a workable solution but one thing that is absent in all of this is her reluctance to appear chair. So it may inconvenience the commission and we apologise chair. As far as it seeks to imply there is defiance of the summons, I submit chair there is non. There is no such intention and we have indicated in the last paragraph that says we request a stay of execution,” explains Myeni’s lawyer advocate Buthelezi.