A memorial service for former South African rugby player, Lindani Myeni, will be held in his hometown of Richards Bay in KwaZulu-Natal on Thursday. The 29-year-old will be laid to rest on Saturday. Myeni’s body arrived in the country on Saturday. He was shot dead in a confrontation with police in Honolulu in Hawaii last month, after they responded to a report of a burglary in progress. Police say Myeni who lived nearby allegedly followed a woman to her home and exhibited strange behaviour. They also say that when they arrived at the home, he charged at them. Police in Holonunu have launched an independent probe into the matter. Myeni’s family spokesperson, Busi Nhleko, says she hopes the death of their loved one will make the issue of police brutality around the world remain a relevant subject. “uLindani is our son, he’s our hero. Young as he is, we are proud today that he is the one who has triggered the whole world to be aware of what is happening in USA,” says Nhleko. Prayer service for the late Lindani Myeni:  KwaZulu-Natal Arts and Culture MEC, Hlengiwe Mavimbela, has called on the US government to ensure that justice is served. “It’s so painful to us, so we need the answers. We want the government of US to give us answers about our son. So the government must stand for the truth so that. As South Africans, we accept everybody. We also expect that other countries respect us as blacks. So what we are seeing being done to our fellow South Africans outside this country is so painful. So we want to see the government intervening,” says Mavimbela. Lindani Myeni’s body en route to his hometown KZN:  911 tape released The Honolulu Police Department has released the 911 tape that initiated a sequence of events that would result in the death by police shooting of Myeni on April 14th. In it, a woman can be heard on the phone sounding at times distraught and terrified as the dispatcher seeks to understand what is going on in the home. Honolulu police Department releases 911 tape detailing events leading to Myeni’s shooting:  