President Cyril Ramaphosa has granted the departed AmaZulu Regent, Queen Mantfombi MaDlamini Zulu, a special provincial official funeral Category Two. The Queen passed on Thursday night last week at Milpark Hospital in Johannesburg, at the age of 65. Queen Mantfombi was appointed as the interim leader of the Zulu Kingdom, after King Goodwill Zwelithini kaBhekuzulu passed on in March. KwaZulu-Natal Premier Sihle Zikalala has appointed a team of four MECs to work with the royal family to facilitate the funeral. The Queen’s remains will be interred on Thursday night at Nongoma and a memorial service will be held on Friday. In a statement, the monarch’s Traditional Prime Minister, Prince Mangosuthu Buthelezi, confirmed that the Regent’s remains will be transported from Johannesburg, where she passed on, to her Royal Palace of KwaKhangelamankengane on Wednesday. Buthelezi says in line with her wishes, as was the preparations for the late Zulu King Goodwill Zwelithini kaBhekuzulu, the Regent will be interred at the crack of dawn in a private burial. Her wish was that she be buried at her palace. Leaders in the royal family must resolve late King’s will issues Cultural expert Professor Sihawu Ngubane says he believes that issues surrounding the will of the late AmaZulu King Goodwill Zwelithini kaBhekuzulu should be resolved by the leaders of the Royal Family. Queen Sibongile Dlamini, the first wife of the late King, and her children are challenging his will in court, also requesting that the appointment of a new Regent be interdicted. Professor Ngubane says the Prime Minister of the Zulu nation should help resolve the matter. “In a polygamous marriage, there was a new bill that was passed where all wives have rights. So in the case of what is going on, it is very unfortunate but I think we need to leave it to the hands of the Royal Family because traditionally the Royal Family should be able to resolve their problems by providing an amicable solution to this matter. That is why we have the prime minister of the Zulu nation who is put in charge of resolving this and I think it is in capable hands.” 