Deputy President David Mabuza has promised that issues of water and electricity in the Maluti-A-Phofung Municipality, in Qwaqwa in the Free State, will be resolved. This is Mabuza’s second visit to the area this year. He previously met with the role-players at the end of March. The municipality has been experiencing inconsistent supplies of water supply and electricity. Mabuza’s visit is a follow-up to the commitment of the National Council of Provinces and the National Assembly to check whether issues related to the delivery of basic services are being addressed. Eskom is expected to take over the billing of the troubled municipality. The municipality is among those that owe the power utility the most money. It owes Eskom R5 billion. Previously, many community organisations and businesses appealed to the provincial government to get direct access to Eskom in the provision of electricity. On his latest visit to the area, Mabuza says progress has been made. “Electricity, the general understanding and agreement that we reached is that Eskom is going to take over now the distribution of electricity and is going to enter into an agreement with the municipality. So we have reached that decision that’s it.” Mabuza has promised to look into the prolonged water problems in the area. “I’m going to come here and address the water challenge again, but I’m going to come again to meet all the municipalities which are in a similar situation as Maluti-A-Phofung. Because there is a number of them that are owing Eskom a lot of money. So we need to discuss with them and probably take the same route that we are taking in Maluti.” The leader of the Shutdown movement in Qwaqwa, Bigboy Mazibuko, has welcomed Mabuza’s efforts to address some challenges that the municipality is facing. “We are very happy that we will never have problems as we did with electricity. Now we are happy that Deputy President David Mabuza has intervened in Maluti-A-Phofung and that he will come back in June as he promised he will intervene on the issue of water, come with Minister Lindiwe Sisulu to resolve the issue of water here in Maluti-A-Phofung.” Trade union Samwu’s provincial secretary, Tiisetso Mahlatsi, has demanded to be part of decision-making, particularly regarding electricity in the municipality. “But amongst some of the issues that were raised involves the employees of the municipality for example the involvement of Eskom taking over electricity, the supply of electricity. But that decision was done without involving the employees or trade unions as it is required by law. So but there’s a promise that we engage, there’s a commitment from the deputy president and the premier. We will wait for that but we make it clear that if we are not involved will approach court because it’s a legal process that must happen.” Mabuza says municipalities in the province owe Eskom about R13-billion. He says the government will try to assist Eskom to recover the money that it is owed. We are back in Maluti-a-Phofung Municipality where we will receive a briefing from the Free State Provincial government on progress made on interventions instituted to address service delivery challenges, particularly the reliable provision of water and electricity. pic.twitter.com/3rZ7ulfCaa — David D Mabuza (@DDMabuza) May 21, 2021   Water crisis in Maluti-A-Phofung municipality: 