The re-elected ANC chairperson in the Northern Cape, Zamani Saul, says the party needs to be ruthless in rooting out corruption in its ranks. He has called on the Health Minister, Zweli Mkhize, to present himself to the ANC Integrity Commission and explain following allegations of corruption. Mkhize is under fire over irregular contracts valued at more than R150 million in relation to National Health Insurance (NHI) and COVID-19 awarded to his close associates. “Instead of us focusing fighting that pandemic we get distracted by allegations of corruption from us who are supposed to be leading. There are serious allegations of corruption against an NEC member which is comrade Zweli Mkhize who is currently deployed as minster of health. If there are such allegations in terms of the guidelines that were adopted by the NEC, expectation is that he should basically go to the Integrity Commission for the Integrity Commission to handle the matter and make recommendations to the NEC,” says Saul. The Special Investigating Unit (SIU) is investigating the matter. President Ramaphosa awaits SIU report on Digital Vibes’ irregular tender allegations:  Magashule’s court battle Saul also weighed in on ANC Secretary-General Ace Magashule’s decision to take the party to court in a bid to have his suspension set aside. The Northern Cape ANC Chairperson has described Magashule’s move as embarrassing. Saul says Magashule thinks he is above the ANC constitution. He says in the history of the movement they have never experienced such ill-disciplined Secretary General. “There is no renewal that will take place in an organisation which does not have capacity to instill discipline among its members. So step-aside is but one measure to ensure that we are going to put our organisation on a renewal trajectory. The issue of the Secretary-General, there is none of us, there is no self-respect in the member of the ANC who won’t be disappointed by Secretary-General who takes the ANC to court and I get a sense that he is doing that because he’s got quite a distorted logic about his own role as the Secretary-General.” Saul was speaking on the sideline of the ANC Northern Cape elective conference held in Springbok. He says the party will recover from its current challenges. In the video below, Zamani critises Magashule for taking the party to court:  ANC President, Cyril Ramaphosa, also addressed the conference. He called on members to work harder to restore unity within the governing party, while also urging them to be selfless in serving their communities. In his address Ramaphosa said there’s no room within the ANC for ill-disciplined members. Ramaphosa reiterated that those who deviate from the ANC’s core values should be reprimanded. “We are determined to execute the mandate given to us by the Nasrec conference because delegates at that conference were clear that and said all NEC members of the ANC to branch members should work harder together to unite and rebuild this glorious movement of ours. When we speak of unity, we are referring to principled unity and now you have coined it beautifully in the Northern Cape, organic unity. It is unity that must arise to the basic of the African National Congress,” he said.