Neighbours of a family of six that died mysteriously at Thaba Nchu in the Free State are still reeling from shock. The bodies of the man and woman and their four children were discovered this week. This after a hardware store employee went to police to report that he has not seen his employer for the past 10 days. Neighbours are left with many questions. It is reported that when police arrived at the house, there was a stench in the air and flies all around. The bodies of the father and three of the children were found in the sitting room, while the wife and one child were found in the bathroom. Family friend, Idi Mombo, says they’re struggling to accept what has happened. ‘The situation is so hard to handle or to receive. When I received the news I was very shocked because I was just in town and someone who is from Segal got a message  from a police officer asking did you know that there is a Congolese family that has died here. And then when I  saw the picture of the house, I knew it was these people and I came running. I found police here and I was speechless,” says Mombo. Neighbours say they did not suspect anything. One neighbour, Kopano Mokhele, says he tried to call them when he could not see them for a couple of days. But when their phones were going straight to voicemail he assumed that the family is not around. They are horrified. “We are scared as neighbors, especially me because these family welcomed me here. And told me that he has business in Botshabelo. We are still in shock and under immense pressure,” Mokhele says. Police have opened an inquest docket for further investigation. “They were welcomed by a foul smell and flies coming from the house. Inside the house they found the lifeless bodies of a male estimated to be 44 years, two girls aged about 8 and 10, and a boy estimated to be about 3 years old. Inspecting further in the bedroom, a lifeless body of a female estimated to be about 38 years old was found and the body of another boy aged about 11 years was found in the bathroom. No physical injuries were seen on the bodies but all were found bloated,” says Free State Police Spokesperson, Thandi Mbambo. Police say the postmortem results will be released next week.