COVID-19 infections have continued to increase in the Northern Cape. Over 400 new infections have been recorded in the province in the past 24-hour cycle, bringing the number of active cases to 5 560. This has put pressure on the public healthcare system, with reports that the Robert Sobukwe hospital is struggling to cope. Doctors who want to remain anonymous for fear of reprisal have warned that the High Care unit at the hospital has reached capacity with the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) expected to also reach full capacity soon. ‘More people testing positive’ Speaking at an African National Congress regional conference in Upington on Saturday, Premier Zamani Saul advised residents not to drop their guard with regards to COVID-19 protocols. “The levels of infections are increasing. More people are testing positive. There are more fatalities. There are more people who are getting admitted to hospital ICUs who need ventilation so what that means is that we need to be more careful.” The video below reports on the surge in Northern Cape cases:  Grey College rocked by infections Meanwhile, the coronavirus pandemic has affected Grey College in Bloemfontein, Free State. Nine staff members and three learners have tested positive for the virus. The Free State Education Department says four of the staff members are teachers. Those infected are self-isolating at home. It says the classmates of the infected learners have also been ordered to quarantine as a precautionary measure. Last week the province confirmed that it has been hit by the third wave of the coronavirus infections. The department’s Education Howard Ndaba says, “We are greatly concerned about the rise in the number of infections, especially in our schools. We attribute this to events like partying, social gatherings, traditional functions. Unfortunately, these infections are being imported into our schools. We, therefore, make an appeal not only to our learners and teachers but also to members of the community at large to ensure that there’s a high level of caution.”