The North West High Court in Mahikeng has ordered people who are illegally occupying SABC property in the town to submit their arguments as to why they should not be evicted by Thursday next week. The public broadcaster approached the court calling for the eviction of the illegal occupiers after they defied last week’s court order. Judge Monica Leeuw earlier ordered that all illegal occupiers must vacate the SABC property. The SABC had earlier announced that it intended to sell non-core properties as part of its turnaround strategy. This includes more than 20 houses and 60 flats that have been rented out. The auction is set to take place next week Wednesday. In April, South African National Civic Organisation Provincial Secretary, Khumalo Molefe said they would not allow the SABC to take any decision “without public participation.” “We have learnt about the unfortunate and unjust action by the SABC based somewhere in Auckland Park, in Gauteng, to sell our property here in Mahikeng in the North West without any public participation. We reject this attempted hijacking of our public property by the SABC and we will not only reject it, but they will find us in the building. We will defend these buildings and we know how these buildings came about.” “It was because of the contributions of our parents from the University of the North West to every building. It is because our parents contributed through their taxes through their blood and sweat that you find in the province. We will not stand by the side and allow the SABC, sitting somewhere in Auckland Park, to take the decisions about our public property,” says Molefe. However, SABC Spokesperson Mmoni Seapolelo said at the time that the public broadcaster will continue with the auctioning of its non-core assets. “The SABC will in May 2021, in line with section 52 D of the Public Finance Management Act for the disposal of non-core assets, hold a public auction of residential property which were rented by SABC employees and none employees. In order to ensure a fair and transparent process and as part of the recommendations of this process  a public auction will be held in May 2021.” In the related video below, Community members hijack flats belonging to the SABC in Mahikeng:  -Report by Sylvester Serame