Johannesburg Mayor Geoff Makhubo says the City is ready for the second phase of the COVID-19 vaccine rollout which starts on Monday. The first phase had targeted frontline healthcare workers. Gauteng Province is experiencing the third wave of the COVID-19 pandemic with Johannesburg being the epicentre. Makhubo has encouraged those who qualify to take the vaccine. “When you qualify for vaccination, if you are over 60, I encourage you. If you are [a] frontline worker and you qualify, please vaccinate because it is only when we hit the 78% of our communities being vaccinated, it’s then we won’t have to worry about COVID-19.” “Monday is a big period [an important day] in our country, especially in our province. Because the second phase of the vaccination is starting. The vaccination sites are all over the city. The elderly, the over 60, especially those with comorbidities must go vaccinate,” adds Makhubo. Situation in Joburg as COVID-19 third wave infections sweep through the Gauteng Province:  Adherence to all COVID-19 protocols Makhubo has cautioned residents in the City to adhere to all COVID-19 protocols in order to prevent a devastating impact that could come with the third wave. On Friday, Gauteng Premier David Makhura announced that the province is now in the midst of a COVID-19 third wave. Premier Makhura concerned as the third wave of COVID-19 infections hits Gauteng:  Makhubo says the City of Johannesburg is an epicentre and therefore more isolation sites have been opened to prepare for those that may need hospitalisation. “Our isolation sites are activated. Remember Nasrec was closed, so Johannesburg Social Housing Company (Joshco) has made available a few buildings for the third wave. Charlotte Maxeke was closed because of the fire. The third wave is here. I look at people around here, some of them behave like there’s no COVID-19.” “When you don’t have to go somewhere, don’t go. Stay home don’t expose yourself. The third wave is here, it is upon us. Johannesburg is an epicenter but at the moment, the numbers are coming from the south. They are coming from Sedibeng,” explains the Mayor. Epidemiologist Dr Jo Barnes on the rising COVID-19 cases in South Africa: 