The South African Council of Churches (SACC) says President Cyril Ramaphosa should not categorise religious gatherings with others, as there is a difference in terms of behaviour. SACC General Secretary, Bishop Malusi Mpumlwana, says restriction on religious gatherings is not appropriate. Mpumlwana says, “Key thing is that churches are the alias in a way because they have got the congregation that can take the messages that are necessary throughout their communities including the promotion of vaccination. You need a greater propagation of promoting vaccination registration, for that you need a church to be functional.” Curfew from 11pm to 4am. Non-essential businesses to close by 10pm. Indoor gatherings up to 100 people & up to 250 outdoors. No night vigils or after-tears at funerals. Effective 31 May 2021. (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document)); Ramaphosa announced the country’s move to adjusted Level 2 of the coronavirus lockdown from Monday. In his address to the nation on Sunday, Ramaphosa said with the increase in COVID-19 cases, strict measures have to be implemented, with gatherings now limited to 100 people indoors and 250 outdoors. Funeral attendance remains at 100 mourners. Ramaphosa says in no time the country will enter the third wave of COVID-19, and people must change their behaviour. “The number of infections has begun to rise sharply in several parts of the country. The Ministerial Advisory Committee on COVID-19 has therefore recommended that the country urgently implement further restrictions to limit the increase in infections. Cabinet has therefore decided that the country should be placed on adjusted Alert Level 2 with effect from tomorrow (Monday, May 31),” says Ramaphosa. The hours of curfew will start at 11pm and end at 4am. Ramaphosa says there is a threat of a third wave of COVID-19:   