Alleged gang boss, Nafiz Modack, has appeared in the Bishop Lavis Magistrate’s Court on the Cape Flats on a charge of corruption together with a member of the Anti-Gang Unit, Ashley Tabisha. The case has been postponed until Monday for the state to consolidate further charges. The National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) Spokesperson, Eric Ntabazalila, says the state will oppose bail. The two suspects have been remanded in custody. He says Modack also appeared on his own on other charges including attempting to commit murder and conspiracy to commit murder as well as the illegal possession of explosives. “The second case on his own, you’ll remember there’s a bail application that is happening at the Parow Regional Court where it’s in connection with an attempted explosion at the house of the late Charl Kinnear where some gang members tried to throw a hand grenade in that household.” The video below shows Monday’s appearance:  Intelligence-driven operation Police Spokesperson Katlego Mokgale says, “It is reported that the suspect was arrested during an intelligence-driven operation conducted by the National Task Team investigating gang-related activities, National Intervention Unit and Tactical Response Team. It’s alleged that the suspect has between 2019 and 2020 enticed by an underworld figure to infiltrate the Anti Gang unit and supply them with information relating to operations of the underworld figure in return for gratification.” Meanwhile, Police Minister Bheki Cele says the state will deal harshly with police officers involved in acts of corruption. Cele has also congratulated the police for the arrest of Modack and the two other suspects. Cele says police need to maintain an impeccable. “Being a police officer is a honorous job, keep your blue, if you don’t want to keep your blue we will not hesitate to convert it into orange. The guy that converts it into orange, the guy that is one of our elite units, the TRT guy attached to the AGU but he has opted to be greedy and worked with the underworld.”