Brown locusts continue to wreak havoc across the Northern Cape. The locust outbreak, which started in September 2020, continues in areas around Kakamas, Douglas, and Kuruman. Affected farmers say swarms of locusts have destroyed their grazing land. Agri Northern Cape Chair, Nico Jansen, says the Department of Agriculture and Land Reform has partnered with the union in trying to contain the insects. “Agri Northern Cape is deeply concerned about the outbreak of locusts especially because it has been a very long season. It started in September and it’s now the middle of May and we still have swamps of two by one kilometres in diameter. It has definitely a negative impact on the availability of winter grazing for the stock farmers and that is a concern for us.”  The Northern Cape Department of Agriculture and Land Reform says they are relying on the winter season to help them curb the brown locust outbreak currently ravaging the province.  Spokesperson for the provincial department, Zandisile Luphahla, says efforts to contain the outbreak continue. “In Kakamas and ZF  Mgcawu, they are moving steadily, flying towards a certain direction. As indicated, we are unable to control in dwellings but we do it only when they move to the veld. Our teams are always on the ground, trying by all means to control, especially after they have moved from the dwellings. As we are approaching winter, we will not see the swarms,” says Luphahla.  More information about the outbreak:  LOCUST OUTBREAK The Free State, Northern Cape and Western Cape are currently experiencing a locust outbreak. In October, the swarms of locusts descended upon vast areas of land in the Karoo in the Eastern Cape, devouring the grass and destroying crops on an already drought-stricken part of the country. LOCUSTS THAT CAUSE OUTBREAKS  The desert locust (Schistocerca gregaria) is producing a plague type outbreak in North and East Africa. This outbreak started in June 2019 and the threat is still there. Then there are localised swarms of the African migratory locust (Locusta migratoria migratorioides) in southern Africa. Two other locust species – the red locust (Nomadacris septemfasciata) and the brown locust (Locustana pardalina) – are known to have swarmed and caused agricultural damage in southern Africa. The brown locust is the causing the outbreak in South Africa. African migratory locust Desert locust Red and brown locusts WHAT CAUSES LOCUST OUTBREAK Outbreaks are caused by unusual climatic conditions,  unusually high rainfall and flooding in the areas where low densities of the locusts occur. The rain causes the eggs which have been built into the ground to hatch.  WHAT CAUSES  LOCUSTS TO SWARM? * The African migratory locust is a tropical locust which prefers grasslands in humid areas.   * Gregarisation of these locusts to form swarms is linked to rainfall and in some cases irrigation of cereal crops *  Adult females lay eggs in moist soil. For the embryo to develop it must absorb water early in development. Sufficient water at the time of egg laying will allow the embryos to develop and survive without drying out. In this state the embryo can survive in the eggs during the dry and cooler winter months until a rise in temperature triggers hatching. Temperature is important for the timing of hatching. As the floods recede during the dry winter season, locusts can keep laying eggs due to the moisture in the soil. Thus the availability of suitable egg laying sites increases as well as the length of time during which the locusts successfully lay. During the winter months there is an accumulation of egg pods in the soil. As there is sufficient water, the embryos in the eggs laid by females at the beginning of winter have developed and are ready for hatching. At the onset of summer, when temperatures increase, there is synchronised hatching of eggs. The emerging hoppers come into contact with each other in sufficient numbers to cause gregarisation. These hoppers then form bands which start marching in search of green food. These develop into flying swarms which are swept along by the prevailing winds into agricultural areas. These locusts have the potential to cause damage to cereal crops. sabcnews.com | SABC News Channel | SABC Radio news HOW CAN FARMERS PROTECT CROPS ? - Prevent locust swarms from increasing in size. - Monitor known outbreak area. - Early control measures such as targeted chemical control can be employed to keep the population below the threshold to trigger gregarisation. Source: Wits University, Frances Duncan and the Conversation (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document));