The elderly in KwaZulu-Natal are looking forward to the second phase of the COVID-19 vaccination rollout set to commence on Monday. Phase 2 is separated in two stages. The first stage will run from Monday until the end of July, with the second stage expected to run from August to the end of October. Clicks and Dis-Chem to support government with Phase 2 vaccine rollout:  The country’s first phase of the vaccination drive was marred by delays and suspension of vaccines, leaving South Africa lagging behind compared to the global rollout. So far, government has managed to inoculated more than 10% of the country’s healthcare workers through the Sisonke Study. In KwaZulu-Natal 70 000 health workers have received their shots. Phase 2 is expected to target people who are 60 and above as well as those with underlying illnesses. “I have high blood pressure. Sometimes my blood pressure gets uncontrollable. I have diabetes and I also have arthritis, which is why I’m walking with crutches,” says Ncanyana Sibeko, a Lamontville resident. The 71-year-old has been using home remedies to protect herself from the virus. She says rumours of possible side-effects after getting the vaccine made her hesitant to get the jab. But despite her concerns, gogo Sibeko says she is now ready to be vaccinated. “I want to protect myself while I have a chance because if I contract the virus and get sick I may not have a chance to get the vaccine because I’d be sick already. If I get sick – I might also die but if I get the vaccine now that might save my life,” she adds. Online registration for people who wish to receive vaccines is open. Senior citizens who have applied online say the process is efficient. “I registered online it was very easy. I did everything that was needed and I was also able to register on behalf of my parents and received SMS notifications confirming that I have registered,” says another resident, Nomagugu Ntshingila. Deli Luthuli, also a resident, says: “I used the address of the Thokoza Hostel. When I was registering they said I might be called to get vaccinated at the Addington Hospital,” says Deli Luthuli, also a resident. Infographic on the registration system: ELECTRONIC VACCINATION DATA SYSTEM Requirements to register: AGE ﻿// You must be 60 years or older to register for the vaccine. IDENTITY// You must have your ID and medical aid card (if you have one) ready before you register. CONTACT// Put in correct address, cell phone and medical aid numbers when registering. CENTRE// Once registered you will be allocated to the relevant vaccination centre. sabcnews.com | SABC News Channel | SABC Radio news SOURCE: StatsSA, ﻿Finfind, Medium Term Budget 2020 How to register ﻿on the website First, make sure you have internet access. Connect to the internet and go to vaccine.enroll.health.gov.za. The system will send an SMS confirming registration for vaccination. When it is your turn to be vaccinated, you will receive SMS with a date and the place. If you have problems you may contact the COVID-19 Hotline at 0800 029 999. Source: Department of Health You will need a smartphone, a tablet or a computer. (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document)); Vaccines will be administered at public and private vaccination centres. Phase 2 is aimed at reaching 16.5 million South Africans. – Report by Bongani Gema