Over 100 low-risk inmates who were released in 2020 as part of efforts to minimise and combat the spread of COVID-19, have been rearrested for committing serious crimes such as murder. This has been revealed in a briefing to Parliament’s Justice and Correctional Services Committee. In 2020, President Cyril Ramaphosa announced that 19 000 inmates would be released on parole in an effort to curb the spread of COVID-19 in overcrowded prisons. Ultimately, close to 14 000 low-risk inmates were released. Government grants parole to some inmates to avoid overcrowding:  They were inmates who were eligible for release, but have been rearrested for crimes such as murder and rape. Briefing Parliament’s Committee, Correctional Services official, Anna Molapo, says 126 were rearrested for very serious crimes. “So in terms of violent crimes; three murders in the Eastern Cape, also rape in Eastern Cape. From Limpopo, one rape and two grievous bodily harm. Free State and Northern Cape, one murder one rape, Western Cape two murders and one rape.” Correctional Service officials having sexual relations with inmates ‘embarrassing’ Deputy Minister of Correctional Services Phatekile Holomisa also says officials having sex with inmates is a huge embarrassment to the department. Recently,  cellphone video emerged of a KwaZulu-Natal official having sexual relations with an inmate.  The official involved and another colleague have been dismissed and the inmate moved to another facility. Holomisa says while this is regrettable, they have ethical and awareness programmes in place for members of staff. “Whilst this has been embarrassing to say the least, it’s an opportunity for the department to further interrogate its systems, security detail, code of conduct and ethical behaviour within the department.” Chairperson of the committee, Richard Diyantyi, says the department needs to earnestly relook at its rehabilitation programmes. “Come back to us and say this is rehab as things stand. We want to know your infrastructure, budget and bottlenecks for programmes.”