Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF)  members are protesting at the Pretoria North Magistrate’s Court – demanding Leon Coetzee be remanded in custody. Coetzee allegedly stabbed and killed Themba Thabethe at an estate, north of Pretoria. The court building is closed to prevent the EFF from storming its precincts or flouting COVID-19 regulations. Coetzee has been charged with murder. During his bail application, Coetzee said he acted in self-defence after Thabethe threatened his wife. Prosecutor: “Stabbing a humabeing 3 times in self defence…3 times. How can this be self defence. This can never stand”
The evidence is overwhelming agains the accused#sabcnews #sabcnews — Patricia Visagie (@Patrweezy) May 7, 2021  The Defence argued Thabethe went to confront Coetzee’s wife after reading a WhatsApp message where he was called corrupt. Coetzee was not on that WhatsApp group. Defence: The incident happened in a heated moment and the attack was not planned. The deceased was the aggressive one.
The victim was overly aggressive.
Victim lifted the accused gate and verbally insulted the wife of the accused #sabcnews — Patricia Visagie (@Patrweezy) May 7, 2021  The Defence: reiterates that the accused didn’t write the controversial WhatsApp message. He was not even part of the WhatsApp fight. #Coetzee was unfairly confronted by the deceased and acted in self defence Defence say there’s no evidence of premeditated murder #sabcnews — Patricia Visagie (@Patrweezy) May 7, 2021  Ncobile Mhlongo, secretary of the EFF in Tshwane, says Coetzee should be denied bail. “We are here today to ensure that this racist doesn’t get bail today. We are here also to show the family that the EFF is here to support them. We are here to say black lives matter. There can never be a situation where a person gets killed by a dog in daylight and nothing happens. We are demanding justice and we are also here to tell the magistrate not to give this racist bail,” says Mhlongo.  BREAKING:The EFF has broken down all the gates at the PTA North MagistratesCourt. They demand access to #LeonCoetzee’s bail hearing . Coetzee is facing murder charges for allegedly stabbing his neighbour to death. Thembinkosi Thabethe died last weekend in hospital. #sabcnews pic.twitter.com/agbnEnzGak — Patricia Visagie (@Patrweezy) May 7, 2021  Man accused of killing neighbour over WhatsApp row back in Pretoria Magistrates court: 