The Department of Health in the Eastern Cape is still concerned about the increase in COVID-19 infections, particularly in Nelson Mandela Bay and the Buffalo City municipalities. This as the Phase-2 roll-out of the COVID-19 vaccine begins across the country on Monday. The Eastern Cape has been criticised for the slow pace of vaccinations of health workers and there are fears it may be worse with senior citizens. Eastern Cape Premier Oscar Mabuyane says they are better prepared this time around, as they have employed additional staff to assist with this phase of the roll-out. Mabuyane says, “Our strategy to manage resurgence is three-fold. Firstly, we are heightening the promotion of non-pharmaceuticals protocols as the proven measure to curb the spread of the virus. Secondly, we are focusing on tracking, testing and isolation of new cases to avoid outbreaks. Thirdly, we are registering people for vaccination and we are targeting to give 770 000 elderly people their first dose before July.” “We also aim to give people with comorbidities one dose before the winter season and cover all essential workers by November under Phase 2. Our country has been assured of 51 million vaccine supplies and they will be rolled out to the populace to save the lives of our people,” added Mabuyane. Eastern Cape Health Department says it is ready for the COVID-19 vaccine roll out:  Pfizer vaccine rollout Limpopo Premier Stan Mathabatha and Health MEC Phophi Ramathuba are expected to join the rest of the country on Monday in launching the rollout of the Pfizer vaccine for citizens that are sixty years and older. Phase two of the roll out in the province will be conducted at six vaccination sites. Just over 100 people have so far registered on the Electronic Vaccination Data System. The six sites include tertiary hospitals Polokwane and Mankweng, Donald Fraser and Dr CN Phatudi Hospital, St Rita’s hospital and Mokopane Hospital. Twenty-nine thousand health workers were vaccinated in the first phase, with the overall quantities of the double-dose Pfizer vaccine earmarked for the province not yet known. Mathabatha and Ramathuba will launch the provincial program at Mokopane hospital. EXPLAINER: South Africa’s vaccine rollout strategy 