Author, Rebone Tau, says politics of the stomach has led to the degeneration of the African National Congress Youth League (ANCYL). This is according to the book titled ”The rise and the fall of the ANCYL”, which details the formation of the ANCYL in 1944 to its current status. The author, a former member of ANCYL National task team, Tau says the youth structure has been missing in action for quite sometime. Tau was speaking during the virtual book launch organized by the University of the Free State. The book was published in August 2020. She contends that the fall of the ANCYL dates back to 2005. This is the era when factions in the party drifted from ideologism to supporting individuals. In 2005, then-Deputy President Jacob Zuma was shown the door by then-President Thabo Mbeki. Leading to the 2007 Polokwane conference some in the league were in support of Mbeki while some were for Zuma. From then, the culture of defending individuals and positioning oneself strategically for deployment or business emerged. Tau says this culture is continuing. “The youth league at the present moment is existing within the factionalism of the ANC. The environment is so toxic and it becomes difficult to rebuild a structure when we are seeing the factionalism that is taking place in the ANC. The youth from 2013 has been saying its rebuilding the youth league and it is 2021 the approach is not working.” Tau argues that behavioural change became visible from 2008 during youth league conference in Mangaung. Many members rejected the outcome of the leadership election and the congress was adjourned. The conference was later reconvened a few months later in Nasrec. Tau also says the critical moment for the youth league was during the suspension of many youth league leaders, including Julius Malema. She says that from then the structure continued to lose its relevance. “There was ‘fees must fall’ in the country. We, young people, were out there united across all political parties. We have a problem of service delivery where there’s issues of water, potholes and the Youth League is nowhere to be found. Let’s live corruption aside – just on issues of service delivery. So much is not being done.” Tau says the weaker Youth League will lead to the slow death of the organisation. “In provinces, we still have Province Executive Committees and they seem to be very silent, quiet, not speaking on anything that is happening in the country,” says Tau. Tau says most people who are leading the structures of the Youth League have been in office for over five years and some are in their 40s and cannot relate to issues affecting the youth. The author stressed the need for the ANCYL to be allowed to grow organically. The structure is expected to hold its elective conference within six months.