The Muslim Judicial Council (MJC) is expected to lead a march with various other organisations in Cape Town on Wednesday against the continued clashes in the Middle East. The pro-Palestine protest is being organised by the MJC, the Al Quds Foundation and some political parties, including the African National Congress (ANC), the Good Party, the Economic Freedom Fighters and Al Jamaah. A number of Palestinians have been killed in recent days in Israeli military attacks. The groups want tougher actions against Israel. The South African Jewish Board of Deputies has called on the SA government and political parties to show even-handedness and to acknowledge the complexity of the situation. It says condemning Israel is irresponsible and dangerous. Pressure Advocacy group, #Africa4Palestine says that international condemnation of Israel is not enough. It wants the South African government to apply enough pressure to ensure that Israel is taken to the International Criminal Court for violating international laws. In the video below, the Group’s  Director, Muhammed Desai, speaks to SABC News’ Peter Ndoro:  Escalating violence The International Criminal Court (ICC) is concerned about escalating violence in the West Bank and the possibility that war crimes are being committed there, its prosecutor Fatou Bensouda said on Wednesday. “I note with great concern the escalation of violence in the West Bank, including East Jerusalem, as well as in and around Gaza, and the possible commission of crimes under the Rome Statute”, Bensouda wrote on Twitter. Hostilities between Israel and Hamas escalated on Wednesday, with at least 35 killed in Gaza and five in Israel so far in the most intensive aerial exchanges for years. The ICC prosecutor in March announced an official investigation into possible war crimes committed in the Palestinian Territories. -Additional reporting by Reuters In the video below,  hundreds of people marched on parliament in Cape Town  On Tuesday as part of the Palestine Solidarity Campaign: 