The Palestinian Embassy in Pretoria has called on the international community to rally behind their fellow Palestinian community back home. This is as the Israeli government continues to unleash attacks on Palestinians despite calls by the United Nations (UN) to end the violent attacks immediately. More than 60 people, mostly women and children, have been killed in the Gaza strip and Jerusalem since the outbreak of violent attacks by the Israeli army. Palestinians living in South Africa have called for a Day of Action in Solidarity with the Palestinian people and a general strike across Palestine. This will include picketing and night vigils in strategic venues like embassies, among others. “We want the international community to implement justice and peace. We are worried about what is happening in Jerusalem, West Bank, and Gaza. It’s a genocide and massacre against the Palestinians. We see the Security Council of the UN take extreme resolutions against a few regimes in the world, but when it comes to the Israeli, they keep silent and they don’t implement the resolution. They don’t take action against what is happening in Palestine and against Israeli,” says Palestine Consulate in South Africa, Hassina Aldrany. Video: Palestinian Councillor to SA speaks about the Israel-Palestine conflict  Video: Analysis | Israel-Palestine conflict  More calls for support Africa Palestine Movement in South Africa’s Muhammed Desai has urged South Africans to take note of the prevailing violent situation in Palestine. Desai also appealed for support in condemning the ongoing killings in Palestine. “The people of South Africa come from various sectors facing some racial backlash and are coming together in condemning the attacks on Palestinians which resulted in more than 200 people being killed in less than one week, and 50 of them children under the age of 16.” The South African Student Congress has also weighed in. The Student Congress is in solidarity with the people of Palestine. A mass protest action is scheduled to take place outside the Israeli Embassy in Pretoria. “There will be a protest by the South African students. The largest student movement in the continent at the Israeli Embassy in Pretoria against Israeli apartheid policy in particular the recent violence that [the] Israeli regime is unleashing on the Palestinian people,” says Desai. Last week hundreds of people marched to Parliament in solidarity with the people in Palestine:  