The Democratic Alliance (DA) says putting the country on adjusted level two is a wrong move from government. It says South Africans do not need a lockdown but vaccines. During his nation address President Cyril Ramaphosa said with the increase in COVID-19 cases strict measures had to be implemented. DA spokesperson, Siviwe Garube says the President has also failed to comment on the allegations levelled against Health Minister, Zweli Mkhize. “We are of the view that the minister must step down until the finalisation of that SIU report. What we cannot have is the situation where is both a player and a referee in investigation that concerns him. We are of the view again that the only way South Africa can really be pull-out of this pandemic is if South Africans are getting vaccinated at pace. The third wave of infections will always inevitable particularly considering the fact that we have been even reached the medium people.” President Ramaphosa said South Africa will move to adjusted lockdown level 2 from Monday. The President’s full address is in the video below:  The move follows an increase of 31% positive cases on the previous week and 66% increase on the week before that. Ramaphosa said the increase in daily cases is following the same trajectory as it did at the start of the previous two waves. “We have seen in other countries the tragic consequences of allowing the virus to spread unchecked,” he says. He said it’s a matter of time before the whole country has entered the third wave. “Gatherings, funerals, camps, sporting activities and ‘after tears’ have become areas where the virus is spreading,” says the President. Ramaphosa says over the last two weeks, over 480 000 people have received the first dose of the Pfizer vaccine as part of the country’s public vaccination campaign. He says the scheduled delivery of the Johnson & Johnson vaccines has, however, been delayed due to regulatory issues related to lack of adherence to proper standards at a manufacturing plant in the United States. The President said the African continent is pushing ahead with efforts to expand its vaccine manufacturing capacity with a view to be self-sufficient in vaccine production. “We are continuing to urge all countries to support a waiver of the TRIPS agreement at the World Trade Organisation so that COVID-19 vaccines and treatments can be produced on a greater scale, at lower cost and at a faster pace,” he says. He said this includes 31 million doses of the Johnson & Johnson vaccine, which is a single-dose, and which will be manufactured here in South Africa. It includes 20 million doses of the Pfizer vaccine, which requires two doses to provide full protection.