The United Nations (UN)  Security Council is meeting over the violent escalation in Israel and the Palestinian Occupied Territories – its the third meeting in less than seven days and its first public session will be opened by the UN Secretary-General. Despite a call on Friday for all sides to stop the fighting, the intensity of exchanges between Israel’s military and Hamas has only increased. An Israeli airstrike decimating a building in Gaza that houses various media organisations, including the Associated Press and Al Jazeera, sent shockwaves around the globe on Saturday. The Palestinian death toll has rises to over 180, including 52 children, while Israel has suffered 10 deaths including a child and a soldier. The Council meeting is likely to see the United States isolated as Israel’s staunchest defender internationally as the administration of President Joe Biden, while communicating Israel’s right to defend itself against the barrage of Hamas rockets, has also expressed concern about the rising civilian death toll and ongoing civil unrest that is spreading in Israel and the West Bank. Diplomatic efforts towards a ceasefire appear to have hit roadblocks with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu estimating that military operations will last a few more days. UN Chief Antonio Guterres said he was deeply disturbed by the destruction of a high-rise building in Gaza City that housed the offices of several international media organisations as well as residential apartments. United Nations Security Council meets on escalating tensions in the Middle East:  Meanwhile, Pope Francis on Sunday called for an end to the conflict in Israel and Gaza, saying the deaths of so many innocent people in recent days, including children, was unacceptable. “I appeal for calm, and for those responsible to end the clamour of weapons and to take the path of peace,” he said in a weekly address to faithful gathered in Saint Peter’s Square. “Many innocent people have died, amongst them there are also children. This is terrible. Unacceptable. Their death is a sign that (people) don’t want to build a future, but destroy it … I wonder where hatred and revenge will lead?” 