ANC President, Cyril Ramaphosa, says placing the economy on a renewal path is one of the party’s core responsibilities this year. Ramaphosa was addressing party members virtually at the Northern Cape’s elective conference in Springbok. He added that party members should elect capable individuals to lead at local government level, and avoid past mistakes of appointing incapable officials who have collapsed municipalities across the country. SABC News Ulrich Hendricks reports on the Northern Cape’s elective conference:  Mbeki expected to address ANC members on unity and renewal Meanwhile, former ANC President, Thabo Mbeki, is expected to make presentations on the unity and renewal of the party. He will contribute to how to reassert the ANC as a movement rooted among the people. ANC PEC spokesperson, Loyiso Magqashela, says the meeting will also draw on the legacy of the founders of the party for the benefit of the current generation. “To strengthen the issue of the organisational renewal and unity, we have then to tap from the wisdom of those who led before so that at least our renewal trajectory gets to be guided and guided properly. You would have nowadays understood how the ANC is pressured from left, right and centre. Now the renewal project then becomes key.  We want to assert the authority and the leadership of the ANC amongst the society,” says Magqashela. Magqashela says on Monday the organisation will engage various community stakeholders to listen to their concerns.  As ANC EC kickstarts its 3 day Extended PEC meeting at EL ICC, Dr W.B Rubusana Region this morning, it’s expected to be joined by the former ANC President Cde Thabo Mbeki.@MYANC@ANCParliament @TMFoundation_@OscarMabuyane @LulamaNgcuka @Jamilogy @mdantsanekas @mfundozs pic.twitter.com/RpgGpcaMjl — ANC Eastern Cape (@ANCECape) May 29, 2021  Political analyst Dr Luvuyo Dondolo says the ANC needs a long term solution if it is to renew the movement. He says the party may regain a bit of trust following current interventions but going forward, they will have to put in more work. This after the ANC in the Eastern Cape announced tapping into the wisdom of those who led before by involving Mbeki in its three-day Provincial Executive Committee meeting currently under way in East London. Dondolo says this is a short term strategy. “The involvement of former leaders such as President Thabo Mbeki, leaders who are perceived to have the moral campus as a way of this renewal of the ANC its a short term, it is the strategy that the ANC is using to win the hearts of the voters however the ANC needs permanent and long term solution, through this short term solution they might win the elections in some of the municipalities but there are certain metros where they will get strong contestation from other political organisations,” he adds. 