The North West government says it is preparing court papers to interdict a group of people who have blocked an administrator appointed to run the affairs of the Ditsobotla Local Municipality from accessing the offices. This week, a group barred MEC Mmoloki Cwaile from introducing the administrator. The provincial government invoked Section 139 of the Constitution to strip the municipality of its powers – a move opposed by some councillors. This is the sixth time the municipality is placed under administration. The Ditsobotla Local Municipality is at the centre of a brewing storm. A government delegation was sent packing by a group of people, who are reportedly against the municipality being placed under administration. Newly-appointed mayor, Tsholofelo Moreo, says they were not consulted when the decision was taken. “We don’t know anything. The only thing that we heard is from the corridors today that Ditsobotla is under section 139. They must come and clarify that the provincial EXCO (Executive Committee) took a decision to place you under Section 139,” says Moreo. Tension mounts over position of the mayor in Ditsobotla Local Municipality  The South African Municipal Workers’ Union (SAMWU) says it supports placing the municipality under administration. Ditsobotla chairperson, Vuyisile Jikimlambo, has accused some councillors of influencing people to cause tension at the municipality. “There is too much maladministration and mismanagement of funds. So, as a trade union, we are so disgruntled by the manner in which councillors are behaving. Not all councillors, few councillors who are power-hungry. We think that, as a trade union, we must engage our Cosatu, to come and assist us, because we’ve got these unruly councillors who don’t want to be led,” says Jikimlambo. Government plans to interdict those who have been barring the administrator from accessing the municipal building. “The administrator has already taken over the account of that municipality and we are going to acquire a form of interdict against those who are disrupting the administrator. The government cannot be intimidated by stone-throwers,” says Mmoloki Cwaile, Cooperative Governance MEC. Meanwhile, two people currently regard themselves as legitimate mayors of the municipality. One is Daniel Buthelezi, who was removed through a motion of confidence, a matter he won in court. Another is Tsholofelo Moreo, who was elected at a council sitting.