Madonsela says the Queen had hoped the new leader would be accepted and given support. “After the untimely demise of our king, King Goodwill Zwelithini, the need to fill up the position of the fallen king has arisen. It is to be appropriate and befitting of the great Zulu nation to bestow the honour given to me by his majesty to my son, Misuzulu Zulu.” Prince Misuzulu Zulu will have to accept the nomination, failing which, any of his brothers could be the next king by vote, through secret ballot. The US-educated Prince is the oldest son of Queen Mantfombi and the late King Goodwill Zwelithini kaBhekuzulu. Chaos There has been a commotion at the scene in Nongoma after the reading of the Queen’s will. A man had apparently tried to challenge the naming of the successor – but was told to sit down by the Traditional Prime Minister, Mangosuthu Buthelezi. Police then hastily escorted Prince Misizulu Zulu from the scene.  Memorial service Earlier, members of the AmaZulu and Eswatini royal families, former President Jacob Zuma, government ministers and amakhosi from different areas attended the memorial service of the late AmaZulu regent.  There was a sombre mood among mourners, especially women and maidens, who had close contact with the Queen. Prince Mangosuthu Buthelezi says he was looking forward to the contribution Queen Mantfombi would have made when she was appointed regent only about a month ago. Queen Mantfombi’s memorial service in full:  Memorial service Earlier, members of the AmaZulu and Eswatini royal families, former President Jacob Zuma, government ministers and amakhosi from different areas attended the memorial service of the late AmaZulu regent.  There was a sombre mood among mourners, especially women and maidens, who had close contact with the Queen. Prince Mangosuthu Buthelezi says he was looking forward to the contribution Queen Mantfombi would have made when she was appointed regent only about a month ago. Queen Mantfombi’s memorial service in full: Call for unity Both KwaZulu-Natal premier Sihle Zikalala and the chairperson of the province’s House of traditional leaders Inkosi Phathisiwe Chiliza have called for unity among members of the royal family. This as King Goodwill Zwelithini’s first wife Queen Sibongile and two of her daughters challenge his will in court. Elders in the royal family have also called into question Buthelezi’s position as prime minister. Co-operative Governance and Traditional Affairs Minister Dr Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma paid tribute to the queen’s work with women. “She was always supportive of the development of women and children, especially the maidens. She was against the abuse of women and children. The Queen was giving direction to the young children.” Delivering the eulogy Zikalala said the queen leaves a lasting legacy. “The work and legacy of the Queen will remain behind and it will be difficult to erase. We, as the government of KwaZulu-Natal, will always support unity and peace among the Royal family.” 