The Western Cape government says it estimates that the province will administer a further 40 000 COVID-19 vaccine doses this week. Around 113 000 people have already been vaccinated against COVID-19 in the province. Health Departments across the country are currently on a drive to encourage people who are older than 60 to register for the vaccine. Progress being made in the Phase 2 vaccine rollout:  Western Cape Premier, Alan Winde, says the rollout of vaccinations also depends on the supply that the province receives. “We were sitting on 8 000 vaccines delivered yesterday. In the last three days, we’ll be hitting 21 000 and our target of 40 000 this week; it looks like we’ll be reaching that. Of course, bearing in mind that we need to bring the vaccines into the system as the supply comes in of the vaccines coming into the province and then making sure we rolling out and lifting the number of vaccines that we are getting into arms every single day.”  Western Cape adds 33 more public service vaccination sites:  COVID-19 protocols The provincial health department has urged residents to continue to follow strict COVID-19 safety protocols, in order to mitigate the impact of a looming third wave of infections. The province has seen a resurgence in cases over the last few weeks. Head of the Provincial Department of Health, Dr Keith Cloete, says everyone needs to work together. “We need everybody to work together with us to flatten the third wave. We’ve started phase one and Phase 2, we are now gaining significant scale-up momentum and we will scale up rapidly from here our ability to administer vaccines in sequentially every geographic area of the province. We need to mobilise and assist everyone over 60 to register.” The Western Cape currently has around 3 600 active COVID-19 cases. Around 290 000 cases have been recorded in the province since the start of the pandemic, with around 277 000 recoveries. Nearly 12 000 people have died from the virus in the province. More than 100 000 COVID-19 vaccine doses have been administered in the province so far. Latest COVID-19 stats in SA: (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document));