The ANC in the Northern Cape has reacted with disappointment regarding  Ace Magashule’s actions following his suspension from the party.  ANC Provincial Secretary Deshi Ngxanga has urged the party’s suspended Secretary-General to respect the decisions of the National Executive Committee. He says Magashule needs to realise that his actions affect the party and send a wrong message to lower ANC structures. Magashule wrote a letter to party President Cyril Ramaphosa, in which he claims to be suspending him. This is playing out as the National Working Committee of the ANC reaffirmed an NEC resolution on the step-aside issue on Tuesday, ordering that individuals within the governing party who have been criminally charged, be issued with suspension letters if they don’t step aside voluntarily. Video: Magashule suspension | Ramaphosa says ANC’s NEC will deal with his letter of “suspension”  Earlier, the ANC temporarily suspended Magashule’s membership, prohibiting him, among others things, from making any public pronouncements. Magashule faces fraud, corruption and money laundering charges related to a failed multi-million rand asbestos project dating back to his tenure as Free State premier. Ngxanga says higher-ranking officials should lead by example. “It is quite disappointing to see his reaction. You don’t expect that from a caliber of comrade like the Secretary-General. You expect him to be calm and to lead by example because, in everything that we do, we need to be exemplary even to lower structures of the ANC. They should want to emulate our example but if we do things like this, it is difficult for them to follow,” says Ngxanga. ANC Step Aside Resolution | Defiant Magashule goes for Ramaphosa’s head: Prof Ivor Sarakinsky:  Meanwhile,  The ANC in the Northern Cape has also urged its members not to run to the courts before exhausting internal processes. This as some branches have threatened to interdict regional conferences expected to take place from the weekend. Members argue that the nomination and election processes at branch level were unethical and unlawful – demanding a re-run of some meetings. Ngxanga maintains that current systems prevent any wrongdoing during Branch Biennial General Meetings. Ngxanga says, “We have in our systems sufficient processes and mechanisms to deal with disputes starting from the branches, comrades will get feedback. They need to be patient a bit and court should be the last resort.” Ramaphosa addressing members during his January 8 statement said that ANC has the potential to return to its glory days, but only if they can root out corruption and infighting. “It was these achievements that earned the ANC the confidence and trust of the people of our country. The trust that our people have invested in us should never be taken for granted. We know that to proclaim our roles re-stride our responsibility, we must renew and rebuild our movement and ensure that it remains true to its founding values and principles.”