The National Prosecution Authority (NPA) in the Free State says it’s ready for trial in the case against Mackenzie Ratselane. Ratselane is accused of stabbing his estranged wife, and Lesedi FM Current Affairs presenter, Dimakatso Ratselane, multiple times, in February. The estranged husband of the Lesedi FM current affairs presenter – Dimakatso Ratselane is accused of allegedly stabbing her multiple times in February. He made a brief appearance last month. #sabcnews #SABCFS — Masiteng Makgala (@masitengmakgala) May 11, 2021  Mackenzie appeared briefly in the Bloemfontein Regional Court on charges of attempted murder, kidnapping, assault with intent to do grievous bodily harm and possession of an unlicensed firearm and ammunition. The case was postponed to 19 May 2021 for further negotiations between the state and the defence. The defence has requested to iron out some issues with the state. This after Ratselane changed the legal representative. The state is not happy with the further postponement of the case. Free State NPA Spokesperson, Phaladi Shuping says they were hoping the accused would plead to the charges against him. “We were hoping that we were going to get a plea from the side of the accused, but when he got to court today he informed the legal representative to inform the court that there are issues that he still wants to negotiate with the state. We don’t know what are those issues. So, the magistrate granted postponement up until the 19th so that the state and the defence can iron out whatever issues the defence wants to discuss with the state.” ANC Women’s League Mangaung Secretary, Nobanele Mkrola, voiced the League’s dissatisfaction with the court processes. “As the ANC Women’s League, we are not happy. (The) last time we were here and they didn’t give us the full information on what was happening inside. Even today, we are here. Since in the morning, we don’t have full information of what is happening inside. It seems like there is something they are hiding from us. So, all we want from now is (for) justice to be served to Dimakatso. We are not happy at all. We are here, but we don’t have the information that is full (on) what is happening inside.” The case against Mackanzie Ratselane is postponed to next week Wednesday. The defense has requested more time to discuss some issues with the state. Dimakatso was also present supported by family and different political parties. #sabcnews #SABCFS pic.twitter.com/vFKkNeWkWJ — Masiteng Makgala (@masitengmakgala) May 11, 2021  Dimakatso Ratselane and her family were also present in court.