AmaZulu Traditional Prime Minister, Prince Mangosuthu Buthelezi, has confirmed that King Misuzulu kaZwelithini has been put on the throne amid support from the royal family. There was commotion on Friday night at the royal palace in Nongoma in northern KwaZulu-Natal after the will of the late regent Queen’s Mantfombi MaDlamini Zulu’s was read out. She nominated her eldest son, Prince Misuzulu, as the next King of the AmaZulu Nation, but acknowledged this needed the support of the family. Prince Misuzulu KaZwelithini confirmed as the king of the Zulu nation:  Prince Buthelezi says there are processes that still need to be followed. “As the family, as far as the Zulu nation is concerned, the king is already on his throne. There are formalities that should follow. I spoke to the Premier this morning and he said he wanted to see the minutes of what happened last when the will was read. What will follow now will be on the side of government.” Buthelezi says all the royal family members including Prince Mbonisi and Princess Thembi have pledged support to the newly elected king of the Zulu nation. Buthelezi says those royal family members who want to take legal action against the newly appointed King have every right to do so. Buthelezi says he has heard some rumours, “I assume that definitely they may be. In fact I can say to the media now that I heard rumours that some of them were actually looking for legal advice already a couple of days ago. That would be the work of the court to decide. If they want to dethrone the King already on the throne of course that is not without any precedent. There is no precedent for that but maybe it might happen this time around. I don’t know.” AmaZulu Traditional Prime Minister briefs the media following the announcement of new King:  More security Earlier, more police officers were dispatched to the KwaKhangelamankengane Royal Palace in northern KwaZulu-Natal, after the disruption of Friday’s reading of the Regent-Queen’s will. Some members of the Royal family had to be escorted away by heavily armed police officers after the meeting descended into chaos. Prince Mbonisi Zulu, the brother of the late King and his sister, Princess Thembi Zulu-Ndlovu were also at the palace. Earlier, it was reported that Prince Thokozani Zulu is in hiding for his safety. This after he raised his hand to speak raising concerns regarding the content of the late Regent Queen MaDlamini Zulu’s will. The faction also said they are in support of Prince Thokozani objecting to the will. The group also revealed that they are seeking legal advice in challenging the late Regent Queen Mantfombi Dlamini Zulu’s will. The group at the moment wants to remain anonymous until they are ready to make a public statement later this week. Reading of Her Majesty Queen Mantfombi Dlamini Zulu’s will: 