AmaZulu Traditional Prime Minister, Inkosi Mangosuthu Buthelezi says the will of the late regent – Queen Mantfombi Dlamini Zulu – will probably map the way forward for the monarchy after the passing of King Goodwill Zwelithini. Buthelezi made the announcement at the end of the official memorial service for Queen Mantfombi, outside her palace at Nongoma. He says the royal family will have a meeting on Friday afternoon to discuss the will following the passing of Queen Mantfombi Dlamini Zulu. She was interred on Thursday night – in a private ceremony at her palace kwaNongoma in northern KwaZulu-Natal.  Advocate TG  Madonsela will also be part of the royal family meeting. Buthelezi spoke to SABC News after the memorial service. “I have already announced that the royal family is going to meet today. Because an advocate from the High Court, a Senior Counsel, Advocate Madonsela, will come to read the will of the late Queen. So we will know our way forward at that time. And we will announce it to the media because the media, I suppose, you will still be around.” Memorial service Earlier, members of the AmaZulu and Eswatini royal families, former President Jacob Zuma, government ministers and amakhosi from different areas attended the memorial service of the late AmaZulu regent.  There was a sombre mood among mourners, especially women and maidens, who had close contact with the Queen. Prince Mangosuthu Buthelezi says he was looking forward to the contribution Queen Mantfombi would have made when she was appointed regent only about a month ago. Queen Mantfombi’s memorial service in full:  Call for unity Both KwaZulu-Natal premier Sihle Zikalala and the chairperson of the province’s House of traditional leaders Inkosi Phathisiwe Chiliza have called for unity among members of the royal family. This as King Goodwill Zwelithini’s first wife Queen Sibongile and two of her daughters challenge his will in court. Elders in the royal family have also called into question Buthelezi’s position as prime minister. Co-operative Governance and Traditional Affairs Minister Dr Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma paid tribute to the queen’s work with women. “She was always supportive of the development of women and children especially the maidens. She was against the abuse of women and children. The Queen was giving direction to the young children.” Delivering the eulogy Zikalala said the queen leaves a lasting legacy. “The work and legacy of the Queen will remain behind and it will be difficult to erase. We, as the government of KwaZulu-Natal, will always support unity and peace among the Royal family.” 