Democratic Alliance (DA) leader, John Steenhuisen, says he will go back to the areas where the party has lost wards during the recent by-elections to regain the trust of voters ahead of the October local government elections. On Saturday the DA held its first virtual rally ahead of the October 27th elections. After the rally, Steenhuisen spoke to SABC News. “I’m very confident that with a well planned and executed election campaign, headed by a very talented mayoral candidates, we will be having an excellent showing of the polls in October, which is why I keep saying that we are ready for the elections. We want to go to the election, it’s the other parties that seem to be stalling. We are ready and the rally has proved that we [are] ready to take our message of hope and change to the rest of South Africa.” DA federal leader John Steenhuisen touches on pressing issues in the party:  Steenhuisen says they are ready for the October 27 local government elections and the party does not need a postponement of the poll. This comes amid calls from some opposition parties for the elections to be postponed as the COVID-19 pandemic continues. The DA is hoping to expand on the success it achieved in the local government elections almost five years ago when it – with the assistance of other opposition parties – took a number of Metros. The IEC this week announced that Former Deputy Chief Justice, Dikgang Moseneke, will be leading an inquiry to assess if conditions for free and fair elections currently exist in the midst of the COVID-19 pandemic. Steenhuisen says voting for the DA is more powerful than throwing a thousand stones. He said his travels across the country showed him that people are angry about local government failures. Steenhuisen says communities are using service delivery protests to motivate. “There is another form of protest that is guaranteed to get better results and that is the protest you register with your vote. That simple little action of drawing a cross in a block on your ballot paper carries more power and brings more change than a thousand tyres burnt and a thousand stones thrown and that is why this year is so critical.” He adds: “Millions of South Africans that have been left to fend for themselves have a small but powerful window of opportunity to say no that is not good enough!” DA confident it will win the Local Government Elections: 