The Modjadji Royal Council in Limpopo says it has never said that the late Queen Makobo Modjadji the sixth’s daughter, princess Masalanabo Modjadji, would be the next Rain Queen to rule over the Balobedu nation. The council announced last Friday that Masalanabo’s brother, Prince Lekukela had been appointed as the next leader to ascend the throne. He will be coronated in October next year.  A regent was appointed in 2006, following the death of Queen Makobo in 2005. Video: The Modjadji royal family refute claims of deviating from their tradition of Balobedu queenship  The spokesperson of the royal council, Phetole Mampeule, says the matter of the person who ascends the throne is closely guarded. “Our history tells us that we have never gone to a situation where the one who has to occupy will be publicly known when they are still young and things like that. It has never been that way because even us, the nation, and even close relatives, close royal members, you find there is a situation where you don’t even know who is to succeed. “That is the reason why when people were saying all these things as the royal family, as the royal council we could not say anything because it has to deal with security, now when people start to presume that this is the situation there is nothing you can do, you just leave them to do that,” Mampeule explains. Meanwhile, many locals in Khethagoni village, the headquarters of the royal palace and in nearby Kgapane township, have welcomed the council’s decision. “I support the coronation of the prince because the princess lives in Gauteng while her brother lives here.” “I think it is wise that they install the prince, I don’t think the rain-making custom will be negatively affected because even the prince will be able to perform the rituals that make it rain.” The Royal Council says the appointment of a male leader to rule the Balobedu tribe is not a deviation from the dynasty as they were ruled by males for 200 years spanning from the 1600s to the 1800s.