Political analyst, Ongama Mtimka, says it remains to be seen whether African National Congress (ANC) suspended Secretary-General, Ace Magashule, will adhere to the party National Executive Committee’s (NEC) directive, that he should apologise publicly to party structures for issuing ANC President Cyril Ramaphosa with a suspension letter. Video: ANC president Cyril Ramapohosa delivers the outcomes of the NEC meeting   Last week, after being suspended for failing to withdraw from the party in line with the NEC resolution, that members facing criminal charges must volunteer to step-aside or face suspension, Magashule instead issued a suspension letter to the president. #ANCNEC Ramaphosa:The NEC discussed the so-called suspension against the President, the NEC noted the SG had no powers to do so and must apologize to the ANC in public , if he fails more charges will instituted against the Secretary General. #sabcnews — #TheLordOfTheMedia (@samkelemaseko) May 10, 2021  Magashule issued the letter without any mandate and authorisation of the NEC or the National Working Committee (NWC). “I think it is part of the real politics. They could have easily taken him to the DC without demanding an apology, but I think part of the real politics is to have him issue that apology because that has got more power and also, it is so that they’re being seen to be creating space for him to make right on the wrongs that he has done,” says Mtimka. Video: Prof. Tinyiko Maluleke sheds light on the latest ANC developments:  Suspended ANC MPs might lose salaries: Meanwhile, ANC Members of Parliament (MPs), who are suspended or forced to step aside, could have their pay docked by parliament. Parliament Spokesperson Moloto Mothapo says members can only miss 15 consecutive sittings and then their parties have to motivate for a further leave of absence. Two ANC MPs, Home Affairs Committee Chairperson Bongani Bongo and former Buffalo City Mayor Zukiswa Ncitha, face criminal charges for corruption and are, therefore, among those who may not represent the party. President Cyril Ramaphosa has said suspended members will continue to receive their salaries until their matters are finalised. “The approval for most of this type of leave falls within the powers of the parties or the leaders of those parties. The rules and policy do direct that the period for which leave may be granted, other than maternity or parental or adoption leave, may not exceed 15 consecutive sitting days of the assembly or council. If a member is absent for more than 15 consecutive days, a motion must be tabled in those houses, stating reasons for the absence and period of continued absence.”