The Eastern Cape Health Department says the vaccination rollout for senior citizens in the province is progressing well. Departmental spokesperson Sizwe Kupelo says since Monday, 4 700 elderly people have been vaccinated. The department says it is also going out to communities to assist the elderly with manual and electronic registrations. Kupelo says, “The vaccination campaign in the Eastern Cape is going smoothly and the department is very pleased with the processes. There are no glitches that are being experienced…” “Up to now since we started on Monday we have already vaccinated a total of 4700 people, we are continuing with the process and expecting additional vaccines by the end of this week. We have established vaccination sites but we also wish to urge elderly people who may receive SMS to direct them to stations that may be far from their residential areas, to rather go to nearest vaccination sites,” adds Kupelo. Vaccination of the elderly gets off to a slow start:  Eastern Cape Health MEC, Nomakhosazana Meth, says the number of elderly people registered to be vaccinated has risen exponentially. According to the MEC, the number has risen to more than 174 000, which is 14 000 more than the number that was initially announced by the department. The MEC says their target is to vaccinate as many as 19 000 people this week as they are awaiting the arrival of more doses. The country is facing growing coronavirus cases amidst a looming third wave. Only Gauteng has declared the third wave of infections in South Africa so far.  South Africa's vaccine roll-out has reached its second phase, where people over 60 & those living with commorbidities are expected to get inoculated.  South Africa's registration progress for COVID-19 vaccines has reached its second phase VACCINATION PROGRESS Vaccination Sites Vaccine types There are a number of vaccination sites across the country, in all nine provinces of South Africa. Each province has at least 5 active vaccination sites. For all sites click here > https://bit.ly/3tNkKgc  The plan is to roll-out Pfizer and Johnson & Johnson vaccines. The Pfizer vaccine is ready for distribution and will be given to people from Monday, 17 May whilst the J&J is still awaiting approval from international bodies. 2 Registration Portal Those eligible to register for vaccination in Phase Two can click here >  https://vaccine.enroll.health.gov.za/#/ First inline will be people over 60 years of age. Vaccination is voluntary. 1 How to Register on EVDS The EVDS (Electronic Vaccination Data System) is where individuals will register to get an appointment for vaccination. After successful registration you will get an SMS notification with a unique code, ﻿the time and place for your vaccination.  4 3 Care for others Friends are really important… We help each other whenever we can, so it’s a two-way street, and supporting them uplifts me.’  Caring for others is often an important part of keeping up relationships with people close to you. It can even bring you closer together. 7 Ask for help None of us are superhuman. We all sometimes get tired or overwhelmed by how we feel or when things don’t go to plan.  If things are getting too much for you and you feel you can’t cope, ask for help. Your family or friends may be able to offer practical help or a listening ear. Local services are there to help you. 6 Drink sensibly We often drink alcohol to change our mood. Some people drink to deal with fear or loneliness, but the effect is only temporary.  When the drink wears off, you feel worse because of the way the alcohol has affected your brain and the rest of your body. 5 Caring for others is often an important part of keeping up relationships with people close to you. It can even bring you closer together. Accept who you are We’re all different. It’s much healthier to accept that you’re unique than to wish you were more like someone else.  Feeling good about yourself boosts your confidence to learn new skills, visit new places and make new friends. Good self-esteem helps you cope when life takes a difficult turn. 10 Number of vaccines acquired South Africa has acquired 12 million vaccine doses from the COVAX facility. 9 million vaccine doses from Johnson & Johnson, whilst Pfizer has committed 20 million doses to the country. MILLION doses 41 Talking can be a way to cope with a problem you’ve been carrying around in your head for a while.  Just being listened to can help you feel supported and less alone. And it works both ways. If you open up, it might encourage others to do the same. Talk about your feelings 9 (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document));