The four people accused of the murder of two South African Municipal Workers’ Union (Samwu) leaders, who were against the VBS investments by municipalities, had their case postponed to the 18th of June by the Thohoyandou Magistrate’s Court. The fourth accused, Ndivhuwo Radzuma, made his first appearance in the case on Friday. He appeared together with his two siblings, Percy and Simon, and eSwatini national Thabo Sibanze. The accused allegedly shot and killed two Samwu leaders who were against the Vhembe district municipality investing R300 million of public funds in the then VBS bank. Sibanze was arrested in 2019 while the Radzumas were arrested this year. Sibanze faces two counts of murder, possession of unlicensed firearm and ammunition. His co-accused also face six counts of murder, 10 of possession of unlicensed firearm and ammunition. All the accused have been positively linked with the deaths of Samwu leaders, Timmy Musetsho and Ronald Mani. Addressing people outside court, Samwu president, Nelson Mokgotho, called for the accused to be denied bail. “Our request and plea to them is that today they must go and work so that the centralisation of all those cases they spoke about doesn’t not become an issue on the 18th. We are saying they must not be given bail these thugs are facing many charges.  They did not go and killed this comrade on their own they were sent by others and some of them might be among us wearing the same T-shirt that I’m wearing,” says Mokgotho. The spokesperson of the bereaved families, Mashudu Mani, says they will be relieved once the mastermind behind the killings get arrested. “People must be patient to us as a family. We understand those arrested are hitmen. Now, we want mastermind. If one is arrested others will follow,” says Mani. NPA Spokesperson, Mashudu Malabi-Dzhangi, says the case  has been postponed for centralisation of all cases against Radzuma brothers. “The three brothers of Radzuma families  and Thabo Sibanze have appeared in court so the matter has been postponed for us to submit all the dockets because we need to centralise them the dockets will be submitted to the office of the DPP,” says Malabi-Dzhangi. The Radzuma siblings have opted to make an application for bail. They appointed private lawyers. Accused number one, Sibanze, however, told the court that he is not interested in applying for bail. He is represented by a state lawyer.