Former Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa (Prasa) CEO Lucky Montana has made damning allegations about Forensics for Justice founder, Paul O’Sullivan. Montana was giving evidence at the Commission of Inquiry Into State Capture on Monday. Montana alleges O’Sullivan sent some enforcers to extort money from him after they heard he was allegedly a central figure in State Capture. Montana denies allegations of buying properties using PRASA money:  Montana says they wanted R500 million to get him out of trouble. “What he does chair is when people, prominent South Africans are in problem chair with the South African Revenue Service (Sars) or the law, Paul O’Sullivan comes in and says I will help you and he comes and collects money. I have called on this commission to subpoena the financials and bank statements of all the companies that belong to Paul O’ Sullivan.” “You will actually see Chair that the modus operandi (operating method)  is very simple. They also pay on the other side at Sars and law enforcement agencies are afraid to deal with Mr Paul O’ Sullivan,” adds Montana. In 2020, the commission’s investigation gave a timeline into the suspicious property purchases Montana made while he was CEO of Prasa. One of the properties is in Pretoria, Waterkloof, and it was worth R11 million. It is alleged Montana used a shell company named Trade and Invest to purchase the houses through his lawyer Riaan Van der Walt who has since left the country. In the video below, the commission hears Prasa-related evidence:  Montana denies receiving houses for awarding tenders On Monday, Montana told the commission that some of the properties he is alleged to have received as gratification for the awarding of tenders are in fact financed by a bank. He denied allegations that manufacturing company Alstom, which received a rolling stock contract in partnership with Gibela from Prasa, bought him a house. Montana told the commission that there was no Alstom/Gibela tender or contract in 2008. He’s denied allegations that he bought several properties in Johannesburg and Pretoria using the agency’s money.