The Department of Education in the Free State has closed some schools in the province due to the rising numbers of COVID-19 confirmed cases. The latest school that is closed is Eunice high school in Bloemfontein after a teacher, five boarders and two kitchen staff members tested positive for the coronavirus. Free State education department spokesperson Howard Ndaba says the active cases are unrelated but that cases have been reported in five grades. He says the Lejweleputswa district has recorded a total of 52 confirmed cases this week at various schools. Ndaba has appealed to members of the community to refrain from visiting schools unless it is s necessary. COSAS calls for closure of schools over concern of non-compliance:  Calls to close schools as COVID-19 cases rise The Educators’ Union of South Africa (Eusa) is calling for schools to be closed as reports of increased coronavirus infections among pupils and teachers surface. The union says with Gauteng, Free State and Eastern Cape having declared that they are in a third wave – the whole country will follow soon. It claims that schools are central to this resurgence as safety protocols have been ignored. The union has also blamed the government’s failure to provide adequate personal protective equipment and claims that COVID-19 cases in the schools are not being tracked and traced adequately. Union’s spokesperson, Kabelo Mahlobogwane says, “The Department of Basic Education needs to stop making these decisions that learners must go to school in their numbers. Cases in schools are raising.” “We are seeing everyday learners and teachers that are testing positive and what makes the situation worse is that there aren’t even PPEs. The department last sent PPEs last year in June and almost a year later we still have schools in Limpopo [without PPEs].” SA records 3 641 new cases and 61 new deaths on Thursday:  COVID-19 vaccine Top South African scientists have warned that one out of every two people could still contract the coronavirus even after vaccination. Just a day ago, the Gauteng Health MEC tested COVID-19 positive after getting the jab.–Additional reporting by Ditaba Tsotetsi People could still contract COVID-19 even after vaccination: 