A Zimbabwean chief has accused former first lady Grace Mugabe of inappropriately burying the country’s late President, Robert Mugabe at the family’s homestead, and has called for her to appear before a village court to face charges. Mugabe has also been instructed to exhume the remains of the late former president so they can be reburied at a gravesite next to his mother Bona. In the letter, Chief Zvimba says, “You are facing charges of burying the late Robert Gabriel Mugabe at his homestead. This is unheard of in Chief Zvimba’s area. At the same time, you are accused of abandoning Robert Gabriel Mugabe’s property which is scattered nationwide.” “All properties of the late Robert Gabriel Mugabe are supposed to be kept at his homestead and handled in line with our traditions. I want you to rebury the late president in accordance with our traditions and in Zvimba at a place designated by the family and his late mother. These charges you are facing attract a fine of five cattle and a goat,” added Zvimba in the letter. He also ordered Grace to attend the village court next week on Thursday at Gonzo Guzha Hall in Murombedzi Growth Point at 9:30am. Grace Mugabe summoned to village court:  Former Zimbabwean First Lady, Grace Mugabe has been summoned by traditional ruler Chief Zvimba, to explain why she “improperly” buried her husband and former President Robert Mugabe at his rural home in Zvimba. pic.twitter.com/b75ca47HEV — Africa Info 247 (@SmartAtuadi) May 12, 2021  pic.twitter.com/IjNtgNuwau — Sophie Mokoena (@Sophie_Mokoena) May 12, 2021  pic.twitter.com/EIKj1RYx6W — Sophie Mokoena (@Sophie_Mokoena) May 12, 2021  Mugabe family, government at loggerheads over his burial Confusion reigned as a tussle between the family of late former Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe and the country’s government became apparent. The two were at loggerheads over the arrangements for Mugabe’s funeral. In a statement, the family raised concerns about what it says is a lack of consultation on the programme and burial which they claim did not take into account his final wishes. Mugabe died in a hospital in Singapore at the age of 95. While the family said it was willing to work with the government it insisted that proceedings must conform to the late former President’s final wishes. Among these, it stipulates that his wife Grace never leaves his casket until he is finally buried. This raises questions as to which parts of the proceedings she was to be excluded from. [WATCH] Service Chiefs have arrived at the home of former Zimbabwe President #RobertMugabe in Harare.
President Emmerson Mnangagwa is also expected shortly.#RIPMugabe#sabcnews pic.twitter.com/kXITvTlZoo — Chriselda ‘Babes We Ndaba’ Lewis (@Chriseldalewis) September 12, 2019 