The newly appointed monarch of the AmaZulu nation – King Misuzulu kaZwelithini – has been described as a unifier of the Zulu nation. This is according to Prince Zeblon Zulu, a historian and uncle of the new king. King Misuzulu has ascended the throne after the late Regent Queen Mantfombi Zulu nominated him as King in her will. 46-year-old King Misuzulu KaZwelithini is the eldest son of the late King Goodwill Zwelithini and the recently departed Queen Regent, Mantfombi Dlamini-Zulu, daughter of the late eSwatini King Sobhuza. Misuzulu – loosely translated – means to unite the AmaZulu. His grandmother Queen Maphovela named him Hlomesakhesihlangu – a name, which Prince Zulu jokes, was difficult for the King’s mother to pronounce. The monarch grew up as a normal child with little or no privilege. He started schooling at Eswatini at Assembly of God Primary School and later at St. Michael School in Swaziland. Prince Misuzulu KaZwelithini confirmed as the king of the Zulu nation:  In 1985, he was enrolled at Roseland Primary School in Phoenix so he could learn more about Zulu culture. He later studied International Relations in America. Senior historian, Prince Zeblon Zulu says the birth of the King on 23rd September 1974 was auspicious as it came a day before Shaka’s Day – now observed as Heritage Day. “On the way to KwaDukuza, we got the good news that she had given birth to the baby boy in 1974. When we looked at the date, we realised that it was predicting something,”  says Zulu. King Misuzulu’s passion for isiZulu Prince Zulu says King Misuzulu was sent to St. Michaels School in Swaziland but did not want to learn other languages except IsiZulu. “Teachers were complaining all the time about Misuzulu, that he did not want to learn IsiSwati. He is Zulu and he was proud of his language. He totally refused to be educated in other languages except for IsiZulu,” says Zulu. Prince Zulu emphasises that the King has royal blood in his veins, derived from the Zulu and Swati royal families. “His blood is bigger than we think. He has the blood of the previous Zulu Amakhosi from Malandela, Shaka, Dingane, Mpande, Cetshwayo until Goodwill Zwelithini. On the side of Swaziland, he has the blood of all Amakhosi from his uncle Mswati. His mother is the daughter of Sobhuza, whereas the father of Zwelithini was King Bhekuzulu. How can you describe this person?” asks Zulu. AmaZulu Traditional Prime Minister briefs the media following the announcement of new King  Prince Zulu says while growing up, King Misuzulu showed signs of respect from a very young age. “That sign of respect was showing that something will come out one day about him. Today he is the King and he is even prepared to look after and unite the royal family members,” says Zulu. Prince Zulu believes the main challenge facing the new King is poverty and unemployment. “The big challenge that is facing the King is to deal with poverty, development. These are things he must make sure that he deals with them as soon as possible,” says Zulu. King Misuzulu is still unmarried but has one son.