The Gauteng Province Executive Council says it’s all systems go for the Phase-2 COVID-19 vaccination rollout on Monday. They will be joining healthcare workers across the province at various health facilities, as the country kick starts with Phase 1B and Phase 2 of the rollout programme. People over the age of 60, vulnerable groups and healthcare workers are eligible to get the vaccine. Gauteng Premier spokesperson Vuyo Mhaga says: “The executive council will oversee the start of Phase 2 of the vaccination programme. Phase 1B will commence with the vaccination of healthcare workers, traditional halthcare practitioners and staff employed at funeral parlours. Phase 2 of the vaccination rollout programme will target vulnerable groups who are 60 years and older. People who have registered will receive a confirmation message with their vaccination site and date.” In the tweets below, Gauteng government outlines vaccination facility centres and operating times: The Provincial Government will on Monday, 17 May, kickstart Phase 1B & Phase 2 of the COVID-19 vaccination rollout programme. Phase 1B will commence with the vaccination of the remaining healthcare workers, traditional health practitioners & staff employed at funeral parlours. pic.twitter.com/RVDvWGccBY — GautengGov (@GautengProvince) May 16, 2021  On Sunday, the City of Johannesburg Mayor Geoff Makhubo announced the city’s readiness for Phase 2 of the COVID-19 vaccine rollout. This as Gauteng is experiencing the third wave of the COVID-19 pandemic with Johannesburg being the epicentre. Makhubo encouraged those who qualify to take the vaccine. “When you qualify for vaccination, if you are over 60, I encourage you. If you are [a] frontline worker and you qualify, please vaccinate because it is only when we hit the 78% of our communities being vaccinated, it’s then we won’t have to worry about COVID-19.” “Monday is a big period [an important day] in our country, especially in our province. Because the second phase of the vaccination is starting. The vaccination sites are all over the city. The elderly, the over 60, especially those with comorbidities must go vaccinate,” adds Makhubo. In the video below, COVID-19 cases in Gauteng on the rise:  Free State to also launch the second phase The Free State Department of Health will also launch the second phase of the COVID–19 vaccination programme at Thekolohelong Welfare Centre in Qwaqwa on Monday. Premier Sisi Ntombela and Health MEC Montsheng will officially launch the Provincial Phase 2 COVID-19 Vaccination Programme In Phuthaditjhaba. #COVID19 #staysafe @fs_health @HealthZA pic.twitter.com/8tLmp7jJpG — FS Government (@fsgov) May 16, 2021  Provincial Health spokesperson Mondli Mvambi says they are targeting elderly people. The Free State needs to vaccinate a total of 1.9 million people to reach herd immunity. Mvambi says challenges with regards to the vaccination registration system will not restrict them from proceeding with the second phase roll out. “We want to reach that area because it is one of the fastest growing areas with daily infections. Part of the third wave that we are experiencing in the Free State is influenced by the high numbers that are found in this part of the province. So, we want to make inroads to educate people about non-pharmaceutical interventions but also to show them the importance of vaccinating to make sure that we get them and we vaccinate and together we fight the scourge of COVID-19.,” says Mvambi. -Additional reporting by Palesa Moeti 