Former cabinet Minister Malusi Gigaba has denied allegations he was under pressure from government to reinstate former Group Chief Executive of Transnet, Siyabonga Gama. Gigaba has concluded his evidence for the day at the State Capture Commission in Johannesburg. In 2010, Gama had been found guilty of misconduct following a disciplinary hearing about his alleged role in awarding irregular tenders. Gigaba has also refuted allegations he was given instructions by Former President Jacob Zuma to bring Gama back as Group Executive and set aside the review for his dismissal. Gigaba told the commission there were a number of challenges facing Transnet when he became Minister of Public Enterprises, including leadership uncertainties. He has denied influencing the appointment Gama. ” I made no such instruction, to the board of Transnet because the issues that they dealt with in this regard were intimate to the company and belonged to a division which belonged to the board so I do not want to be implicated in this issue.” Meeting Gupta brothers Earlier, Gigaba detailed to the commission how he met the Gupta brothers. Gigaba also denied he visited the Gupta residency in Saxonworld more than twenty times as alleged by his former wife Noma Gigaba. The former minister told the commission he knew the Guptas while he was President of the ANC Youth League back in early 2000. He has also denied allegations that he had dealings with them while he was minister of Home Affairs. He says he had interactions with the brothers and they were also well known within the ANC circle. Gigaba says he recalls going several times to the Gupta-owned Sahara Computers offices in Johannesburg to pick up invitations. He said he only had social and cultural interactions with the Guptas and not business dealings. “The most important thing Mr Chairman is not how many times you interact or visit a friend or acquaintance. The most important thing is what you do with them and as I said I had no business dealings, so whatever interactions I had with them were just social and there were no expectations of me. Probably if you go by the testimony of the previous witness I did not deliver anything I simply did my work. I knew them and my knowledge of them had no impact on the work I was expected to deliver.” Gigaba explained how and when he met the Gupta brothers. “They were quite involved within the ANC helping the ANC to fundraise and they were well known amongst the leadership of the ANC and I think from records they had served in the, one of them had served in the international investment council. During Mbeki’s time, the IT one and they were quite close with the leadership of the ANC, that’s when I first met them.” Gigaba distanced himself from allegations of corruption at Transnet while he was minister of Pubic Enterprises. He says his involvement was limited to shareholding responsibilities. There are allegations of kickbacks from Transnet to Gupta associate Salim Essa. In 2014 Transnet purchased 1 064 locomotives at a price R54 billion. Essa is alleged to have received kickbacks in this deal. Gigaba claims he was not aware Essa was involved in kickbacks. “(Evidence leader) You say the people involved should be afforded the opportunity to explain that is the Gupta’s and Mr Essa but you know where they are (Gigaba) Do I?, (Evidence leader) No I am not accusing you of anything I’m just saying they are not exactly knocking down the door of the commission to come and give their version. (Gigaba) Unfortunately chair I can not give their version I can only give Malusi Gigaba’s version.” Noma Gigaba’s evidence Noma Gigaba, who testified before Malusi Gigaba, accused him of abusing his state power to have her unlawfully arrested by the Hawks. Noma Gigaba continued her testimony at the Commission of Inquiry into State Capture on Friday. Gigaba vs Gigaba at the commission:  She says her estranged husband and the Hawks wiped incriminating evidence from her mobile devices. Noma Gigaba was apprehended by the Hawks in July last year for malicious damage to property and crimen injuria.
She allegedly scratched a luxury car Malusi was driving with a vegetable peeler and sent an insulting message to his friend. But the North Gauteng High Court ruled earlier this year that her arrest by the Hawks and the confiscation of her electronic devices were illegal. Noma told the Zondo Commission her and Malusi’s trips to Dubai and Mauritius were paid for by the Guptas and former SAA Board Chairperson Dudu Myeni. Noma and Malusi Gigaba made claims and counterclaims at the commission. She says the Hawks helped her estranged husband to delete incriminating evidence of their international trips paid for by the Guptas from her electronic devices. The embattled Malusi Gigaba will have an opportunity through his legal team to cross-examine his estranged wife Commission Chair Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo. Justice Zondo says the Noma Gigaba cross-examination will take place at a day still to be decided. He indicated that this may take place over the weekend but before the end of May. 