Health Minister Zweli Mkhize says the number of people who were vaccinated at more than 80 sites nationwide on the first day of Phase 2 of the COVID-19 vaccine rollout will be announced on Tuesday. Mkhize says despite some challenges, the start of Phase 2 proceeded reasonably well. He says vaccinations at some sites were disrupted by Eskom’s current load shedding and the violent protests in the Free State. Mkhize says a public dashboard that will publish the numbers in real time will be launched soon. Vaccinating the elderly will not prevent COVID-19 infections: Dr Mkhize  Elderly urged to register Mkhize visited the Munsieville Centre for Aged, in Krugersdorp, Gauteng, as part of the launch of Phase 2 of the vaccination programme. While 87 vaccination centres began operating on Monday, Mkhize has said this figure will increase in the coming weeks. Mkhize has encouraged the elderly to register for the vaccination. “The co-morbidities are highest with people that are 60 and above, the next risky category is over 40 so if we target the 60 year old, then we are reducing the risk of sever infection, of death, of ICU. We will go to old age homes but we also have outreach programmes, there are many people to townships and villages who are not found in old age homes. There is collaboration with SASSA so we know how to target them” he says. Over 4 000 senior citizens were expected to get their COVID-19 vaccine on Monday:  South Africa's vaccine roll-out has reached its second phase, where people over 60 & those living with commorbidities are expected to get inoculated.  South Africa's registration progress for COVID-19 vaccines has reached its second phase VACCINATION PROGRESS Vaccination Sites Vaccine types There are a number of vaccination sites across the country, in all nine provinces of South Africa. Each province has at least 5 active vaccination sites. For all sites click here > https://bit.ly/3tNkKgc  The plan is to roll-out Pfizer and Johnson & Johnson vaccines. The Pfizer vaccine is ready for distribution and will be given to people from Monday, 17 May whilst the J&J is still awaiting approval from international bodies. 2 Registration Portal Those eligible to register for vaccination in Phase Two can click here >  https://vaccine.enroll.health.gov.za/#/ First inline will be people over 60 years of age. Vaccination is voluntary. 1 How to Register on EVDS The EVDS (Electronic Vaccination Data System) is where individuals will register to get an appointment for vaccination. After successful registration you will get an SMS notification with a unique code, ﻿the time and place for your vaccination.  4 3 Care for others Friends are really important… We help each other whenever we can, so it’s a two-way street, and supporting them uplifts me.’  Caring for others is often an important part of keeping up relationships with people close to you. It can even bring you closer together. 7 Ask for help None of us are superhuman. We all sometimes get tired or overwhelmed by how we feel or when things don’t go to plan.  If things are getting too much for you and you feel you can’t cope, ask for help. Your family or friends may be able to offer practical help or a listening ear. Local services are there to help you. 6 Drink sensibly We often drink alcohol to change our mood. Some people drink to deal with fear or loneliness, but the effect is only temporary.  When the drink wears off, you feel worse because of the way the alcohol has affected your brain and the rest of your body. 5 Caring for others is often an important part of keeping up relationships with people close to you. It can even bring you closer together. Accept who you are We’re all different. It’s much healthier to accept that you’re unique than to wish you were more like someone else.  Feeling good about yourself boosts your confidence to learn new skills, visit new places and make new friends. Good self-esteem helps you cope when life takes a difficult turn. 10 Number of vaccines acquired South Africa has acquired 12 million vaccine doses from the COVAX facility. 9 million vaccine doses from Johnson & Johnson, whilst Pfizer has committed 20 million doses to the country. MILLION doses 41 Talking can be a way to cope with a problem you’ve been carrying around in your head for a while.  Just being listened to can help you feel supported and less alone. And it works both ways. If you open up, it might encourage others to do the same. Talk about your feelings 9 (function(d){var js, id="pikto-embed-js", ref=d.getElementsByTagName("script")[0];if (d.getElementById(id)) { return;}js=d.createElement("script"); js.id=id; js.async=true;js.src="https://create.piktochart.com/assets/embedding/embed.js";ref.parentNode.insertBefore(js, ref);}(document));