The African National Congress (ANC) president Cyril Ramaphosa has told the party’s parliamentary caucus that he only received Ace Magashule’s so-called letter of “suspension” at 10 PM on Wednesday night. He says the letter came out of the blue and it dismayed him, but he would leave it to the NEC to deal with the matter this weekend. The ANC’s Head of the Presidency Sibongile Besani says Magashule’s letter was aimed at collapsing the party. ANC officials to hold an urgent meeting to discuss Ace Magashule:   Besani says Magashule’s letter is null and void and a desperate attempt to save his floundering political career. “It is one of the most unfortunate precedences because that letter is an attempt to collapse the ANC and is an attempt not to build unity within the ranks of the  ANC. At the same time, he is part of those who have been trying to collapse the ANC. They have been benefitting from a weak ANC, whether it be on a personal level or whatever level. They are people who thrive when there is confusion.” Ramaphosa told the party’s parliamentary caucus that Magashule’s attempt to suspend him holds no water. He says he was dismayed when the letter dropped into his inbox on Wednesday night. Defiant Ace Magashule goes for Cyril Ramaphosa’s head:  ‘Party tried to save Magashule’ The party’s Deputy Secretary-General Jessie Duarte says the party has tried to save Magashule. “I think anybody who is asked to step aside begins to fight for their political life. When you are challenged within the organisation, often your best defense is to follow the prescripts of the organisation. And normally, you come out better. One would hope the SG would accept that particular perspective.” Magashule is fighting back, but the ANC will meet over the weekend to discuss Magashule’s ill-discipline of bringing the party into disrepute. Discussion on the ANC suspension saga:  National Assembly Earlier, President Ramaphosa’s oral question and reply session in the National Assembly was marred by questions around his alleged suspension from the ANC by suspended Secretary-General Magashule. Some opposition parties questioned the status and standing of Ramaphosa in the House. But National Assembly Deputy Speaker Lechesa Tsenoli said Parliament had not received any suspension letter in relation to the President. 