Health Minister Dr Zweli Mkhize says his department is investigating reports that people who are not eligible to take the COVID-19 vaccine are getting it. The first phase of government’s vaccine rollout programme, which targeted health care workers,  is about to end. The second phase will start on Monday next week and it will focus on those who are over 60 and people who have underlying medical conditions. Some South Africans accused of jumping queues to get COVID-19 vaccine:  Mkhize has this message for those who as he puts it, are jumping the queue. “People should try and stick to their line so that when it’s their turn, then they can get the vaccination. People should be really part of the queue. When we find out, we obviously have to take steps against those who are transgressing, but the media must give us something concrete that we can use to investigate when they say so and so did it.” Dr Zweli Mkhize on the latest COVID-19 situation in SA:  Support for vaccine development On Thursday, Zweli Mkhize encouraged South Africans to support the country’s developments in producing vaccines to fight COVID-19. South Africa and India are continuing to push for a waiver on some intellectual property rights for vaccines and medicines at the World Trade Organisation. South African-born American medical entrepreneur, Dr Patrick Soon-Shiong, announced a R3 billion investment towards vaccine development in South Africa. Dr Patrick Soon-Shiong announces R3 billion investment towards vaccine development:  Mkhize was delivering his budget vote speech during a hybrid National Assembly sitting. “I wish to close this address by inspiring confidence in our ability to build local manufacturing and the government has undertaken some key collaborative initiatives and investments to ensure that SA can independently meet its own biotech needs. These include attracting a BRICS vaccine research and development centre and using the newly acquired consensus around the issue of IP waivers that SA must become the manufacturing hub for vaccines and other pharmaceutical patents and supporting our programmes such as BioVac,” the Minister said.