The African National Congress (ANC) says it is concerned about the leaking of its internal discussions to the media. ANC spokesperson Pule Mabe says in a statement that there is a growing tendency to leak discussions of the party to the media. The ANC was holding its National Executive Committee (NEC) virtual meeting at the weekend, and several discussions, including audio recordings, have been leaked to the media. It was the same meeting from which suspended secretary-general Ace Magashule and Member of Parliament Bongani Bongo were booted out. The party has warned that those leaking its internal discussions to the media could be found guilty of misconduct. “We are aware that they are supplied with information by their own sources in an attempt to not only divide the ANC but also to drive a particular narrative that there are those against the united spirit that is being displayed. The ANC’s approved administration protocol states that any member who releases information to the media without due authorisation shall be guilty of misconduct. The ANC’s legal team is looking into this matter,” Mabe explains. The video below is reporting on the removal of Magashule from the NEC’s virtual meeting:  Magashule said he should not have been booted out because he had appealed his suspension. ‘ANC on the verge of collapse’ The NEC has heard claims that the party is on the verge of collapse due to the implementation of the step aside resolution. Limpopo chairperson, Stanley Mathabatha has cautioned that three factions are now claiming to be the real ANC. In the leaked audio, Mathabatha says this is a crucial time for the ANC. “The president that we are having today is one of the best presidents that we could ever find as the African National Congress and we must support him, comrades. But now the problem that I see is the comrades who run around purporting to be defenders of our president. When they are running around [dividing] the African National Congress pursuing their personal and factional agendas in our provinces,” explains Mathabatha. Political analyst Levy Ndou weighs in on the ANC matter: 