President Cyril Ramaphosa has warned that if South Africans are not cautious, the entire country could find itself engulfed in a third wave of the coronavirus. He was addressing the nation on the country’s response to the COVID-19 infections on Sunday evening. Ramaphosa said South Africa will move to adjusted lockdown Level 2 from Monday. Currently, South Africa is experiencing a spike in daily coronavirus infections with Gauteng among the provinces hardest hit. Ramaphosa says if people do not adhere to necessary precautions, the whole country could find itself in trouble. “Over the last seven days, we have seen an average of 3 745 daily new infections. This is an increase of 31% on the previous week and an increase of 66% on the week before that. We are advised that a positivity rate of over 5% is a cause for concern.” “The provinces of Free State, Northern Cape, North West and Gauteng have reached the threshold of a third wave of infections. It may only be a matter of time before the country as a whole will have entered a third wave,” says President Ramaphosa. The President’s full address is in the video below:  Curfew and restrictions on gatherings: The President says a new curfew from 11pm to 4pm will also be in place. “Bars, restaurants will have to close by 10pm. Gatherings limited to 100 indoors and 250 outdoors,” adds President. Ramaphosa says where the venue is too small to accommodate these numbers with appropriate social distancing, no more than 50% of the capacity of the venue may be used. The President is urging owners and managers of public buildings, centres, shops, restaurants, taxis and buses to ensure that people on their premises or in their vehicles wear masks and that the appropriate social distancing measures are in place. He is also calling on South Africans to avoid unnecessary travel. “We must remember that the virus does not move from place to place by itself; it relies on the movement of people. The less we travel, the less the virus is spread,” he says.